This is Jocko podcast number one 42 with Echo Charles and me,
Jocko Willink.
Good Evening Echo.
Good evening
es La Marshall could be a bragger of the first order I could write on toilet
paper with a crayon and sell.
It was a routine boast,
but his favorite claim to fame was at first the most puzzling to me and years
later the most significant in terms of unraveling the hustler and the phony that
he was and how he was nonetheless able to make such a mark on the u s army.
Slam regularly brought up the fact that the army had made him a general despite
his never having attended even one military school and that he was the only
general in the army to have this distinction he neglected to say and never would
have had I not followed up out of sheer curiosity that he'd gotten his star,
not in the regular army but in the reserves.
Meanwhile,
with no reason not to believe him,
I accepted slam story of World War One.
His experiences as an infantry man in all the major campaigns,
his battlefield commission to become the youngest second lieutenant in the U s
army during the war,
the romantic tale he spun of Armistice Day when he saw in the end of the war,
sharing his canteens with his brigade commander in the trenches with no reason
not to believe him.
I accepted slams,
tales of World War II to his participation in the fighting in the Pacific,
as well as his service in Europe,
which had him in the front line of the Normandy invasion.
It would be many,
many,
many years in which slam repeated the stories endlessly in which his reputation
was only further bolstered as one or the other appeared in everything from
current biography,
1953 to the obituaries upon his death in 1977 and in his autobiography published
two years later before I would discover it was all a lie.
Slam had been in an enlisted man with the 315th engineers,
90th Infantry Division during World War One and spent his time not fighting as
an infantry man but repairing French road roads until just before the wars and
he had not been battlefield commissioned and he wasn't anywhere near the
trenches on 11 November,
1918 and being instead at the army France based officer candidate school then
called infantry candidate school.
The self proclaimed at youngest lieutenant in World War One who in fact never
served an officer in any outfit,
regular or reserve in any capacity ever was not commissioned until April,
1919 long after the last angry shots were fired.
According to his service record,
slam saw no infantry combat in World War II either.
Although he was awarded a CIB for the Marshall Islands campaign while serving on
the DA staff and far from being on the ground from the earliest hours of the g
six June,
1944 Normandy invasion slammed,
didn't even arrive in the European theater theater until July and then it was as
a staff officer slash historian reconstructing the operation and while slam
would speak with pride of being the only American soldier to serve in all four
of America's Great Wars in the 20th century,
it was a claim more than more than a little deceptive.
His Korean War experience covered exactly three months,
December of 1950 to February,
1951 when he was recalled from the reserve to active duty as a historian slash
operations analysis for the eighth army,
a stint for his country that produced the river and the Gauntlet for himself and
his service in Vietnam was undertaken as a six year retire reserve general and a
40 year experience.
Journalist slams job when he wasn't wearing a khaki.
Looking for a story on the army's tab.
A historian as careless with his own history as slam Marshall was,
could hardly be a careful historian,
and Marshall proved the rule.
Veterans have many of the actions he documented in his books have complained
bitterly over the years of the inaccuracy or blatant bias
with it.
Although the truth was that slam was a fallen and irrevocably smashed idol in my
eyes.
He knew I'd grown away from him throughout our time together,
but it was not something to discuss.
I cherished my career too much to risk getting on his bad side,
and I was opportunists opportunistic enough to see the value of my staying on
the good side.
But there must have been many like me who silence in the face of slams,
power only added to it and gave credence to his dubious expertise.
Who allowed him to have an observed amount of influence,
which fed his ego in,
lined his purse and for years did an incalculable,
horrific disservice to the army.
The thing he professed a love above all,
not to mention to the nation and to the men who fought and died in Vietnam.
Okay.
When General Johnson had warned me,
take care of with slam.
He's,
he is the army's powerful friend,
but he can be a treacherous enemy.
I had not understood what he meant,
but when I finally did,
I understood too that the chief of staff had gotten it backwards.
The reality was that Slam Marshall was the army's powerful enemy because he was,
it's most treacherous friend and if he were alive today,
perhaps even more than the Vietnam era generals who determinately maintain,
we won the war,
we lost in their hands.
Slam Marshall would have plenty to answer for
that.
Right?
There is a section from my favorite book about face by Colonel David Hackworth
and he's talking about his experience with a guy by the name of Sla Marshall,
otherwise known as Slam Slam Marshall,
and that's a pretty devastating opening come.
That's a pretty devastating,
that's a pretty bad,
devastating opener.
You can hear what his career was a,
so there's a lot of negativity around SLA Marshall.
And for me coming from Hackworth,
that's basically all I need to hear.
That's all I need to hear is when,
when Hackworth,
you know,
goes.
And so Hackworth worked with him and did a tour in Vietnam with him.
They were going around documenting things and he'd got to know him.
And at first he kind of idolized him and I'll talk about that a little bit,
but that,
and that's one of the things that hack mentions in about face was that he had
this huge impact on the army and in hacks says that he used to read his books
over and over again.
And,
and so it's kind of a weird dichotomy.
There is that hack got information from some of SLA Marshall's famous books that
he wrote about combat,
but then,
and,
but then he turned out to not have told the truth.
So
one of the books that he talks about that he read a bunch is a book called
mitigants fire.
And it's based on his interviews and reporting on World War II.
And that book made some claims and some of the claims that the book made are
just patently untrue.
Just la,
they're just not true.
And the biggest of the lies is that,
does that right to call it a line,
the biggest of the claims,
maybe it's a lie,
the biggest of the untruths we'll call it,
that the biggest of the untruths revolves around this notion that SLA Marshall
presents that in combat,
only about 15% of the soldiers on the battlefield in combat actually fires a
weapons at all 15%.
Now,
that's a really strange thing to say now.
And,
and knowing what I know now,
I think he may have done that for a couple of reasons and I'm not making
excuses.
I'm saying this is why I think he would do that because there's no excuse for
doing this.
The first is I think he wanted to have a,
uh,
a theory or a hypothesis that was like kind of shocking and,
and would gain him some publicity.
Right?
That's a shocking thing when you hear,
hey,
in combat,
only 15% of people fire their weapons,
right?
You're,
you're going,
what are you talking about?
That's crazy.
So I think he wanted to have something to discuss that would,
that would bring him out to the limelight.
You know,
the shocking claim.
And second,
I think he saw that there was an actual problem.
Right?
That may be not as many people shop there,
weapons in combat as should.
And he wanted to fix that problem.
So it was it 85% of the people that weren't shooting the weapon,
no.
But maybe the number was a decent percentage that that didn't shoot or could a
shot more.
Is that possible?
Yeah,
I could say that that's possible.
Maybe not as many people were.
Not as many people were shooting as you would have liked.
So that's,
that's why I think he got focused on that particular subject.
And I think the normal human life things,
right.
I think he had a big ego,
which are actually,
I don't think he did.
He had a big ego.
He was insecure.
Um,
I think he made up some of these other stories which,
which are horrible to make up stories about your combat experiences is a big
mistake.
I think this is,
you know,
in many ways this is like one of the first documented cases of stolen valor.
Right?
And obviously I don't like stolen valor.
So there's a lot of negativity around SLA.
Marshall and I have to be careful because
I,
it's,
it's very easy for me to throw the baby out with the bath water.
Right?
And when you,
you,
you know,
okay,
so I'm here to learn.
Right?
And despite these very,
very significant character shortfalls,
here's the facts.
The books that he wrote guided the military and had a significant impact on
military leaders for many years,
including Hackworth,
including Hackworth.
So eventually I had to look and see what is in these books and what,
if anything,
I could learn from the books.
And I think from my perspective,
okay.
So,
so he did massive amounts of interviews with people and he did have,
you know,
he was okay.
He wasn't Indy day,
he was there a month later interviewing people,
finding out what happened.
So we talked to a lot of people and I think his perspective,
and same thing with world war one,
he wasn't there,
but he was close to it and he talked to a lot of people and then he spent his
time in the Pacific theater.
He spent time in groups so he had perspective.
It's not the perspective that he claimed to have and if he would have been smart
and just said,
look,
I wasn't on the front lines,
but I talked to a lot of people.
I have,
I was in the military.
I have a good perspective.
Here's what I've learned.
If you would've said that,
it would have been fine.
Unfortunately he didn't say that.
Do we throw the baby out with the bath water?
The the,
the,
my initial gut reaction is yes.
Flyer,
right?
Sure.
Right.
Hey,
no,
I'm not going to listen this guy,
but I had to think about it.
If this book influenced the military so much,
and this book in particular,
the book is his men against fire is the big book that he wrote.
I say the big book,
it's the book that he wrote after World War II.
I think it came out in 1947 and it's,
it had a big influence and I can tell you that it had a big influence.
It had a big influence.
And this is what's funny.
It had a big influence because despite,
so I guess the facts about his career came out after he died.
He died in 1977 in the facts came out some years after that.
Right.
I would hear quotes from SLA Marshall all the time when I was in,
this guy is a known liar.
Again,
maybe that's a harsh word,
but he did not tell the truth.
And you know,
when it comes to like making up what you did in combat,
you kind of,
you kind of earn yourself the w the,
the name Liar.
So the guy lied.
And yet I would hear quotes,
uh,
from what he said and what he taught and what he thought.
And a lot of it made sense,
right?
So,
okay.
Is it true that a,
or even a broken clock is right twice a day?
That's,
that's still a pretty small percentage.
But I'd hear quotes from,
from SLA Marshall that were correct and it wasn't a small number of quotes.
And so I think despite his ego,
despite his lying,
she had a lot of good,
he had gathered a lot of good information and talk to enough people that he
actually started to make sense.
And he saw people in multiple different wars again,
did he see it to the degree that he claimed to know?
But you know,
there's,
there's a lot of military historians that were never in any kind of combat
whatsoever that were never,
even in the military.
There's,
there's plenty of very respected,
I've got books in the queue and I don't know if I'll ever cover him,
but I've got books in the queue that are great books about war and about the
military that were written by people that were never in the military.
There's military theorists that were never in the military that I have a great
deal of respect for.
So
then that they say sensible things.
So,
so is there a question of character?
Yes.
Are we going to throw the baby out with the bath water?
I'm going to try not to.
I'm going to try and see what we can learn.
And I think from when I read this book and I read this book a long time ago and
I don't know,
anyways,
I got stuff out of it and I think there's actually,
I'm going to tell you,
I think there's actually a lot to get out of this book and if nothing else,
it reflects and reinforces some lessons and bring some other ones,
paints them a little bit more clearly.
So
without further ado,
and I found myself as I was,
as I was reviewing this book again,
um,
it will like about halfway through it,
I totally forgot that it was this guy that I consider a liar.
Right?
I was,
yeah,
I got over that.
Right.
Because I'm thinking they have that makes sense.
Yes.
That does that.
And he's pulling in quotes from military leaders and
are you with me?
I mean,
does it make sense?
It makes 100%
sense.
Cause remember back in the day,
Remember Milli Vanilli remember that?
Those,
that group,
oh you guys the two guys.
Yeah.
So everyone will,
we're liars.
Yeah,
no way.
Yeah.
So it wasn't them singing and all this stuff as it turns out,
as it turns out,
but when they were on,
you know,
on the radio and stuff,
but everyone like that,
you know,
they blame it on the rain or whatever the day,
uh,
did they recover?
They did not recover from their situation.
Negative and I,
SLA Marshall was dead.
Yeah.
Well one of the guys committed suicide and Milli Vanilli.
It was like,
you know,
he got heavy.
But nonetheless,
the point is,
it's like,
yeah,
it's not them seeing it,
you know,
they're liars or whatever,
but the songs were kind of dope.
That's the thing.
So you know the same deal,
Marshall,
Milli Vanilli same thing.
Same,
same situation.
I'm saying if you put on one of the Vanilli Milli Vanilli songs right now,
I don't bring it right back.
You know,
the dance or whatever,
you know,
it's still good.
It's good.
So the guys that actually sang it or why don't you teach those two guys how to
sing?
Is that had,
are that are same?
Yes.
So one time not to go too deep into it,
but they tried to make it goes to a podcast.
I'll be milli Vanilli into it.
And they were like,
Hey,
we think you,
cause they messed up on stage,
right?
The taste is skipped it and well,
and so they're like,
oh my God.
They panicked.
They ran off stage,
all this stuff.
They could have just been like,
yeah,
we were lip for that shill.
But then I forget how they handled it,
but then people were like,
hey,
how long does it take?
The guy to kill himself a long time,
years,
you know,
they got exposed to all this stuff,
but he was just,
and so they're like,
um,
they're like,
no,
we'll prove it.
You know?
And then so the people came in and listened to him,
like actually seeing in the thing.
It was like,
oh my God,
not even close to these guys can't even sing.
You know,
it's,
you gotta tell the truth about what's going on,
man.
You got to,
that's the thing like how you said like,
why not just get here?
The people who really sang those songs,
they were older people,
they were like old,
like 50s or something like that.
Like,
so they didn't have the pop culture kind of feel.
So they were less marketable.
And I did,
did just hire a couple like vocalists.
I mean,
how bad can those guys sing?
Terrible.
The real guys.
All men.
Yeah.
You can watch the watch,
the little documentary thing.
What and who's looked good and they have fit German accents too.
That's the thing too.
Yeah,
they're from Germany.
Oh.
So it's like,
it's uh,
it's night and day.
There are different and,
but the real people who saying it,
they were like,
like I said,
like old,
you know,
funky like kind of jazz type people from what I remember.
They're just less Margo,
but just like how you said sure,
they're less marketable.
But man,
they're putting out some pretty cool songs.
I mean,
yeah,
I don't know the marketing.
I think that's a big part of it.
I don't know man.
But you are right though.
You know,
it's weird.
It's also because the stuff that,
this stuff that SLA Marshall says in this book,
he,
he's making,
he's making statements that they stand on their own.
You don't need to be able to say,
look,
I was here,
so therefore what I'm,
you should listen to
look,
know the,
the,
the value of what you're saying should stand on its own.
You don't need to be,
you don't need to be,
uh,
have some certain experience.
You know,
it's like Leif and I talk about,
and I would say you can't,
if you're trying to prove a tactic to someone.
Yeah.
Like if I say,
Hey,
when you get in this situation,
here's what you should do.
I shouldn't say because this is how we did it when I was in Baghdad or when I
was in Ramadi or when,
whatever,
or when I was in nom nightclub.
Like,
no,
here's the tactic and and look at how it performs.
Go and do a trial run.
Go and do some force on force training.
You'll see that the tactic works and SLA Marshall,
smart guy,
great writer,
God could have said,
hey,
here's these tactics that I learned from these other people that just got out of
it and that wasn't good.
That's a little eagle thing,
isn't it?
Just wasn't good enough for him.
Didn't you guys have a name for that one?
Someone would bust that out.
We weep when I was in Baghdad.
Baghdad.
They would always in beggared we did it like this and you can't stand.
You can't stand on that.
Right?
Is it good to have experience and say,
Hey,
look,
when I was in Baghdad,
this is how we did it.
Perhaps we should try it this way.
That's one thing.
But to say when I was in Baghdad,
this is how we did it.
So that's how is the best way to do it,
which is just not true.
It's not true.
Things evolve.
The fundamental principles of combat leadership don't change.
But the tactics that you use can definitely ma,
you have to modify your tactics.
The enemy's gonna modify their tactics,
so you have to adjust as well.
And so to rely on your personal experience as how you bolster your arguments is
wrong.
It's,
it's a,
it's an additive.
It's,
it's good to say,
hey look,
I've done this before and this is a good way.
I remember I had a situation where I was teaching how to go over the beach with
boats,
right?
And I brought up some things and I said,
hey look,
I've done,
and I had happened to have done multiple deployments on a ship.
And when you're on a ship,
you go over the beach a lot and going over the beach is a complicated operation.
I don't care.
There's no easy way to do it,
man.
You got gear that's going to flood out and you got waves,
you've got tied,
you got served,
you've got sand,
you've got salt water.
It's a nightmare.
And that's one of the things that makes the seals good is that we have to do
this.
So when you go,
you,
when you insert any other way,
it's freaking easy.
Like you step off a helicopter,
everything's fine.
You see no use you,
you,
uh,
you could drop out of a vehicle,
everything's fine.
You come over the beach,
everything is a disaster.
There's salt everywhere.
There's water everywhere.
Everything's flooded and broken and you're freezing cold.
It just sucks.
And that's our normal mode of operation is right there.
So everything else seems easy.
But I had a guy that was saying,
don't,
uh,
don't ever bring the boats in.
And I totally disagreed with that.
It was like,
well,
you have to think about what you're gonna do is basically what I'm saying.
You have to think of what you're going to do if you can avoid,
if the boats come in and they flip,
it's a real problem,
right?
It's a real problem.
If there's surf,
it's a real problem and you need to have like elements ready to just handle the
boats because if something goes wrong,
so you can't,
you have to really think about what you're doing in any ways.
I almost fell back on like,
look,
I've done this.
I've done over the beach over and over again.
I know the deal,
right?
It's like,
no,
actually,
because the deal is many times when you look at the surf and you,
you go,
you know what?
We need to swim in.
It's going to suck,
but we need to swim in because risking the boats going through and it's,
there's two,
there's two things that are pulling at you.
The waves are big,
right?
You're thinking,
Hey,
we better get the boats to bring us in as actually counterintuitive because the
waves are big man.
You flip a boat over and you've got your,
it's a disaster.
It's a disaster.
So anyways,
I almost relied on the,
hey,
this is the way we did it and I've done this a bunch and it's like,
no,
that's not Mary.
You have to be explaining,
explain,
okay,
here's what can happen.
Here's the problems and here's the end.
There's problems for both of us.
There's times where swimming,
there's times where you don't,
but you have to understand why you're making that decision.
You can't just blanket a decision cause it gets sketchy.
All right.
Anyways,
this is a big introduction to SLA.
Marshall.
Here we go.
I've got to say one more thing bro.
And,
and you'll laugh.
And I,
we've written two books about our experiences.
They're not there of the leadership books,
but you know,
we make it very clear that like,
hey,
this is our memory to the best of our ability.
But there's some things that you just don't,
you,
if you don't know something,
he shouldn't make a claim.
But there's something like,
you know,
if you were participating in d day,
you don't mess up that fact.
Like for me to be like,
Hey,
wait,
I,
oh yeah,
I was on that mission and someone to be like,
oh well actually you weren't.
I mean,
be like,
well,
when was it?
And while I did whatever I was on hundred operations.
Oh,
I don't know if it's on that one or that.
Well,
you know,
you don't like it.
It's understood,
right?
People make mistakes.
People your memory,
it fades with Emory.
I think Lafe and I,
I mean we in both the intros to extreme ownership and dichotomy leadership,
we spell it out,
you know,
this is to the best of our memory.
This is a historical document.
And we,
you know,
at some point I'm sure we'll go back and actually get the dates and explain
every single thing that happened by date and who was there and what experiences
took place.
They're like,
yeah,
that would be good to have.
And especially now it's probably,
it's all unclassified now cause it's been a long time.
But the kind of errors that he's making in our,
like I was at d day or I was in the trenches with my brigade commander on the
day that world war one ended.
Like that's not a small,
like your memory's not gonna forget that.
Right?
Yeah.
It's just not going to happen.
So tell the truth and what sucks is this is what sucks.
If you don't
tell the truth,
you discredit everything that you've said that actually is truthful.
That's the problem with this book.
That's the problem with his book.
Everything that it basically,
you can take this book and throw it in the garbage can and no one could really
argue with you.
Oh,
that guy lied about a bunch of stuff.
Okay,
well throw it in the garbage.
Can I get it?
Yeah.
And if it wasn't for the fact that hack actually had learned a ton from this
book,
I would be like,
well,
we'll throw it in the garbage.
But if you learn from it and then used what he learned from it to implement in
the Korean War and the Vietnam War,
it's like,
okay,
you know what?
I'm going to pay attention to it
as a rough dot.
This is a rough that I,
it took me a long time to decide to cover this book actually in that crazy.
It makes sense though.
Totally makes it make sense that it took a long time and it makes sense that
we're here right now with book in hand.
Both.
Okay.
I mean more the longtime thing.
Of course.
Yeah.
You got to consider just like that what there's like a reporter,
like an,
like a news reporter who like say it,
he was in a helicopter and it got to a five of all that was a Hillary Clinton.
She took sniper fire coming,
right reporter that did that too.
And it was like a legit reporter.
And then he said like,
he did took all this stuff and then it was like,
well,
I was in the helicopters,
do like two,
two helicopters behind that.
Uh,
you know,
meanwhile he has some good stuff.
You shouldn't have said that,
you know,
just like,
are you saying you should,
you don't have to say all of that and know that there's something else that
happens.
This catches people when it comes to storytelling.
Okay.
I'm gonna explain this.
If I'm telling you a story about something taking place
and I'm not a great storyteller,
I want you to feel how I felt.
Yeah.
So if I say to you like,
let's say I got a mortar that exploded 50 yards from me,
50 yards,
I'm pretty safe,
which could I get fragged sure I could get fragged but I'm pretty safe.
It's still pretty shocking.
Whoa.
It's blowout boom.
And when that first mortar hits you like,
oh wait,
is another mortar gonna hit me?
What's going on?
Well,
when I tell you,
hey,
a mortar hit and he hit 50 meters from me,
I'm thinking,
well,
that doesn't really convey how I felt at that moment.
So you know what I'm going to do?
I'm just going to cut that down a little bit.
I had this mortar hit 10 meters from me and now you're thinking,
oh Dang.
Like even you,
I can see it on your face.
You get it now.
So in order for me to try and convey the emotions that I actually felt,
people start to adjust and you gotta be careful of that there.
I don't think they're doing it intentionally.
You know,
I,
I used to put myself in check like,
okay,
I need to tell a good story but I need to keep the facts straight.
Right.
Sketchy.
Get us the thing,
the facts.
So there's a difference between saying a,
this was the biggest explosion you'd ever seen in your life.
You know,
like saying that is different than like this explosion was literally,
you know,
200 feet in the air or something
like this where you can say,
oh,
this was a 400 pounds worth of he and T.
Yeah.
You can't make those factual,
you can't make those facts with it,
but hey,
something hits 50 meters from you and you've never been mortared before.
That will,
that is a scary thing.
Yeah.
It's a scary thing.
Do a metaphor though.
Yes.
But here's what's,
here's what's cool,
or here's what you need.
Here's what I always need to remember when I tell you I got a mortar that landed
50 minutes.
Most people are like,
damn,
that's scary enough.
Need to make it more scary.
Oh yeah.
Let's just keep it real.
Yeah.
You even mentioned the smoke trail behind the mortar.
When you see it going up.
To me that's scary.
That's scary.
Yeah.
I don't care how many meters away.
It's not really smoke.
It's a,
it's like little sparks,
like a sparkler.
Oh,
like a trail king.
That's what it sounds like too.
That even sounds scary by the way.
So,
um,
here we end up,
we ended up with SLA Marshall's book.
Lots to learn from it and yeah.
So let's get into it.
We'll,
we'll,
we'll try and take it for what it's worth.
Yes sir.
And I believe you're going to find,
as I was reviewing this book,
I'm like,
yeah,
there's so much good information in here.
Here we go to the book.
In the early years of World War II,
it was the common practice of public spokesman in the United States to magnify
the role of the machine in war,
while minimizing the importance of large forces of well trained foot soldiers.
Hey,
World War II,
we're just going to win this thing with all these big machines were where we're
creating.
Once the total contest between national societies is predicated,
it becomes impossible to write off the ultimate clash between the masses of men
who fight on foot.
They are the body of the national defense.
There is no other way out.
Okay.
The society which looks for an easier way is building its hope on sand
Tim already getting kind of fired up because that's real.
That's real.
Yeah.
Improvisation is the natural order of warfare.
The perfect formulas will continue to be found only on charts.
That's good.
What's the quote that you clipped out of Dave Burke saying,
good deal.
Yeah,
Dave saying he said it at the muster.
It's not a spreadsheet.
Oh yeah.
This is in a spreadsheet.
This isn't a spreadsheet anymore and that's kind of what I,
that that,
that made me think of that because leadership is not a spreadsheet.
It's not a spreadsheet is not a perfect thing that you can just put out in a
spreadsheet.
Okay,
here's the decision we're going to make.
It doesn't work that way.
All right.
Here we go.
Getting back to the book.
Since more than a century ago when the rifle bullet began its reign over the
battlefield and soldiers slowly became aware that the day of close order
formations in combat,
what's forever gone.
All military thinkers have pondered the need of a new discipline.
It has been generally realized that fashioning the machine to man's use in
battle was,
but half of the problem.
The other half was conditioning man to the machine.
The mechanisms of the new warfare do not set their own efficiency rate and
battle.
They are ever at the mercy of training methods which will stimulate the soldier
to express his intelligence and spirit.
The philosophy of discipline has adjusted to changing conditions.
So think about this.
Talking about discipline,
the philosophy of discipline has adjusted to changing conditions as more and
more impact has gone into the hidden power of weapons.
Necessity necessitating ever widening deployments of the forces of battle.
Key Part,
the quality of the initiative in the individual has become the most praised of
the military virtues.
So as we got these weapons that can shoot and kill more people at greater
distances,
people got more spread out.
The more spread out people got,
the more it becomes important that you have initiative.
Hmm.
Back to the book.
It has been readily seen that the prevailing tactical conditions increase the
problem of unit coherence in combat.
This the only offset so people are more spread out.
The only offset for this difficulty was to train for a higher degree of
individual courage,
comprehension of the situation and self starting character in the soldier.
So the more spread out people get,
the more you have to rely on these individual soldiers to make the right
decisions out there to show initiative that becomes the new discipline.
Hmm.
This decentralized command knows,
by the way,
from this realization have come new concepts of discipline,
which of altered nearly all the major aspects of life and of Human Association
within Western armies.
We've continued to grapple with the problem of how to free the mind of man,
how to enlarge his appreciation of his personal worth as a unit in the battle.
How to stimulate him to express his individual power within limits,
which are good,
which are for the good of all.
Yeah.
How do we free the mind?
How do we,
and notice this is a little dichotomy here,
free the mind to express individual power,
but here's the dichotomy within limits which are for the good of all.
So you can't just be doing what's good for you.
You can't just express your be free your mind and do whatever you think is right
for your own purpose.
You need to do it for everyone.
The good for all
back to the book,
it is universally recognized that as the means of war change,
so must the intelligence of man be quick and to keep pace with the changes.
Our weakness lies in this that we have never got down to an exact definition of
what we are seeking.
Failing that we fall short in our attempt to formulate in training how best to
obtain it and our philosophy of discipline falters at the vital point of it's
practical tactical application.
I say that it is a simple thing.
What we need in battle is more and better fire.
What we need to seek and training are any and all means by which we can increase
the ratio of effective fire.
When we have to go to war.
The discipline training methods and the personal policies of our forces should
all be regulated to conform with this one fundamental need.
Now you can see what he's getting at here.
This is his big statement.
This is his big hypotheses,
so it's,
it's actually he says,
I say it's a simple thing.
We what we need in battle is more and better fire.
That's his big statement.
I don't agree with that.
Like there's other things.
There's a lot of other things going on in leadership.
I think actually the things that he talked about prior to this are more
important than fire.
Decentralized Command and making people take initiative and having people step
up and do the right thing for the entire team,
but with a free mind making these things happen and for some reason he just
bypasses all that super important stuff.
It says,
Hey,
no,
the most potent thing we need is more and better.
Fire.
Fire is important.
Hell yes.
Fires important.
That's why I love machine gunners.
It's all my machine gunners out there.
God bless you.
You lay down the fire to all the supporting fire elements out there.
Artillery,
close air,
love via,
thank you.
We need more fire.
I agree with that,
but that's not,
that's not the,
it's not the thing that we narrow everything down to which is his hypothesis.
So lot of good information there.
He narrows it down to a different direction.
Don't agree with it.
And actually I'll go ahead and say not true.
It's all these factors that we need to improve.
Fire is not the sole thing.
Fire is absolutely important.
Fire winds firefights absolutely.
Fire maneuver,
cover and move for firefights.
It helps.
So fire helps when firefights it doesn't when it on.
So yeah,
next chapter's called on future war.
He says the battlefield is the epitome of war.
All else war when war is perfectly conducted exist,
but to serve the forces of the battlefield and to assure final success on the
field,
it is on the battlefield that the issues of war are decided.
Check,
concur.
It should be noted that all military power is dependent on civil will.
It is the nation and not the army,
which makes war.
So I've talked about that before.
The will,
you got to have the will.
If you don't have the will as a nation,
you're not going to win.
And then I've talked about it before.
The wheels you got to have are the wheels to the will to kill and the will to
die cause that's what war is.
It's killing and dying and if you don't have those,
if you don't have the will to do those two things,
you should not be entering more because the outcome is not going to be good.
Every improvement in weapon power is aimed at lessening the danger on one side
by increasing it on the other.
Consequently,
every improvement in weapons is eventually met by a counter improvement.
Best Jujitsu,
right?
You've got the counter right?
Come up with a new move.
Guess what?
Somebody's going to come up with a move to counter it.
That's always happening with weapons.
I like this little wine right here.
Decision in war is a clinching act.
It is the action which finally delivers the victory,
surely into one's hands,
decision,
decisiveness,
making the call.
That's what you need to do.
Next chapter man on the battlefield,
on the battlefield,
the real enemy is fear and not the bayonet or bullet all means of union of
power,
Demand Union of knowledge.
That's a quote from Robert Jackson and he continues here.
It is of the battlefield that I speak in saying that the mind of the infantry
soldier should be conditioned to an understanding of its reality through all
stages of his training.
[inaudible].
That's one of the reasons why I heard so many quotes about SLA Marshall is while
we were getting trained,
people would refer back to SLA Marshall and when I ran trading I knew I had to
bring it up sometimes cause I'd say,
look,
here's what's going on.
We need to think about this and I'll get to some of those points later.
But training is his methodology.
When he wrote this book,
part of the focus is like,
hey,
we need to train people differently and and what he says about training is 100%
valid,
100% valid
back to the book.
He needs to be taught the nature of the field as it is in war and as he may
experience it someday for if he does not acquire a soldier's view of the field,
has image of it will be formed from the reading of novels or the romance written
by war correspondents of which he was one.
By the way,
or from the viewing of or or from viewing the battlefield as it is imagined to
be by Hollywood.
One of the purposes of training should be to remove these false ideas of battle
from his mind.
Totally agree.
Absolutely.
To give the soldier a correct [inaudible] concept of battle is a far different
thing from encouraging him to think about war.
This is it.
So thinking about what I just said,
to give the soldier a correct concept of battle is a far different thing from
encouraging him to think about war.
The ladder is too vast a canvas.
It includes too much detail,
which is confusing to his mind and immaterial to his personal problem.
He's like,
don't think about this big picture.
You need.
Think about what's happening.
We have surpassed all other armies and outstripped common sense in our effort to
teach man something about war.
He's counseled about wars causes,
which is a good thing on which those rare occasions when he is,
when the instruction is in qualified hands,
he's told about how the soldiers and sailors of other nations observe Kersey and
foster tradition.
He is even board by lectures on the strategy and logistics of high command,
but he does not get what he requires most.
The simple details of common human experience on the field of battle.
As a result,
he goes to the supreme leak testing experience of his lifetime as it almost a
total stranger.
So you learn all these,
and you know what?
Actually when Lafe took over the junior officer's course coming out of buds,
it was very focused on the big picture stuff.
And it wasn't helping these guys being prepared to be in a seal platoon.
And life was like,
no,
I gotta change this.
W He,
you can still talk about the stuff and it's important to,
you don't throw it out,
but you got to teach people what the human experience on the battlefield is and
that's what they've tried to do.
And that's what I tried to do when I took over training and my training was
further along when I took it over.
You know,
we were already moving in that direction.
We're heading already reflected that.
But a lot of the stuff that leaf was being taught in [inaudible] course was not
okay.
The human experience on the field of battle Lafe try to get that in there and he
did a good job of it.
And back to the book,
the price for failure.
So the,
so you're talking about to train these people pro correctly,
the price for failure is paid all up and down the line.
Men Go into action the first time haltingly and groping Lee as if they were lost
at night in the deep woods.
Lives are wasted unnecessarily.
Time is lost.
Ground that might be taken is overlooked.
It is not necessary that these misfortunes befall organizations simply because
they are new to battle.
It is possible that the infantry soldier can be trained to anticipate fully the
true conditions of the battlefield.
It is possible that units can be schooled to take full and prompt action against
dispute against the dis unifying effect of these conditions.
Fear his ever presence,
but the but is the uncontrolled fear that is the enemy of successful operation
and the control of fear depends upon the extent to which all dangers and
distractions maybe correctly anticipated and therefore understood.
You gotta simulate battle.
That's what you got to do and they did a great job when I was going through my
workups,
they did a great job of doing that.
When I took over and was running training,
we brought it even to the next level.
It was freaking mayhem out there and I had many people and we're going to have
some guys that are retiring in the future that are coming on the podcast that
went through my workups.
They will tell you being an actual combat was easier.
It was easier,
and that's what my goal was.
We want this train,
he'd be so chaotic.
And what you think about this right here,
when you think about law enforcement training should be the same way you want
these guys completely tested.
You want it to be harder than anybody they ever have to deal with.
You want the situation to be more stressful than they're going to deal with in
real life.
And that's how you get them prepared.
Okay?
Next.
The heart of the matter is to relate to man,
is to relate the man to his fellow soldier as he will find him on the field of
combat,
to condition him to human nature as he will learn to depend on it when the
ground offers him no comfort and weapons fail.
He talks a lot about human nature.
I talk a lot about human nature.
When you were,
when you'd hear about this,
Oh,
this guy,
you know,
this book,
did you know that he was a faker back then?
It was,
yes,
but it was,
uh,
you know how there's two sides to every story.
It seemed like to me until I read about face and I was like,
okay,
there's the actual side.
There's the actual side is cause you know,
Hackworth said,
look,
this is what he actually did.
Here's his military records.
So,
but up until I read about face,
it was kind of like,
oh absolutely.
There's some weird stuff about his career,
but you know,
kind of what is it?
Gray area.
But not everyone.
Some people would talk about him like he was the man without any demerits
against him,
without any question against them.
Right.
Which kind of adds to the little hodgepodge opinions will,
that was,
that was a crazy thing.
I mean when Hackworth was just talking about opening that I read,
this is something that is just,
when you read it,
you go,
Oh God.
So he's saying that Hackworth is saying that basically he,
he didn't want to bring up the fact he stayed on his good side.
Right?
Hey,
he valued his career.
Um,
slam had a lot of power,
so he's just gonna stay on his good side.
And then he saying how many other guys were doing that?
How many guys were just staying on SLA,
Marshall's good side.
Cause they wanted to continue their career and,
and in order to do that,
they're like,
oh,
you know what?
I'm not gonna say anything about it.
And that actually bolsters his power cause Hackworth at this time,
right?
If you get a blessing from Hackworth,
it's like that's real pod.
Remember what,
remember what Moocs,
Jim Mooky Yama said about Hackworth.
He's like,
everybody knew Hackworth.
Everybody knew him.
He was mister infantry.
Coolest nickname ever.
By the way,
if I come back in another world,
I'm going to do whatever it takes to earn the nickname Mr Infantry.
That's just as legit as it gets.
So,
but when you got Hackworth going,
Oh yeah,
yeah,
I worked with slam.
Good guy.
Right?
That's a little,
oh that's Hackworth saying that.
So it's,
it's like,
and now there's other generals are saying this because everybody just wants to
protect a little career and he's saying he was opportunistic because this is
Hackworth coming out straight up,
calling himself guilty.
Yeah.
So do you think this happens all the time though,
right?
It happens all the time.
Do you think that it's kind of in a way your duty to,
to,
to kind of call it out?
Okay.
There's two ways to answer that question.
If you call it out and it doesn't work and you get blacklisted by Sla Marshall
and now you don't make rank and now you're not in charge and they shove you off
to some bill at,
over in
wherever
and now you have no,
no more influence.
Did you do a good job?
Did you make a right call?
If you play the game and you just go along with it and you try and get yourself
to a position of power where you can actually have more influence than you would
have had and you had to,
you had to bite your tongue.
Was that the good move?
But what if you didn't really get to where you want it to be in now you
accelerated him and he turned it again.
You know what I mean?
That's a very tough decision to make and that's why that's why you gotta be gets
why you got to be tactful.
You got to think about what's going on.
Do got to think about the longterm consequences of what you're about to do.
That's why leadership is challenging.
And that's why playing these political games,
which you have to play in every different organization,
people don't think there's political games in the military.
Golf,
it's a big political game.
It's a big giant political game and same thing in co companies.
Corporations.
Yeah.
Right.
That's the way the world works.
You got to play the game.
Yeah.
So like even socially,
you know,
where let's say you know a person and I've been in this situation before and not
even necessarily in it,
I'm not saying that,
not saying that either,
but I'm saying plausible deniability and it just came out Charles.
But you know,
you know of somebody who,
um,
they're,
they're like a complete like faker buyer and you know,
the,
I don't,
you know,
just some saints,
social scenario where,
you know,
they have a nice car but then they owe like 10 people,
like tens of thousands of dollars because of how they screwed him over in
something like their friends and all this stuff.
Right.
Meanwhile,
there's a small group of people who know all about that stuff and then we see
the,
you know,
we'll see.
Or you'll see this person as this huge faker going around town as this huge
faker.
Um,
but everyone else who's not in it and sees him as this great person who's like,
you know,
whatever.
Is it your duty on a social level seem saying like ti to be like,
hey,
because you know,
I guess it could be said like,
hey,
you're kind of protecting other people from getting screwed in that same way for
sure.
But at the same time it's like,
yeah,
do it.
Especially if you don't have a dog in the fight.
I have to look at what the,
what,
what is this person doing that's benefiting anyone if all they're doing is
screwing people over?
Mom going to say something.
For sure.
Yeah.
If this person,
if this individual was somehow,
you know,
running a big charity organization,
right,
right.
That's a legit thing.
Right.
That could happen.
He's donate money or getting people to donate or whatever.
Maybe I'd try and mitigate it more,
but you know,
in a social situation just first and just sounds like they're going to screw
people over.
I think I'm going to,
I think I'm going to drop dime.
Yeah,
yeah,
yeah.
On on one hand you're kind of like,
yeah,
let me let me,
and not the kind,
you're not going to go on the radio or something and broadcast it on the radio.
All of these direct,
right.
You can go,
you can go on the social media.
That's what I mean.
But you're not going to go on and announce these things.
It's just like if it ever comes up,
here's,
you know,
here's a,
here's a situation that could unfold.
If you call this person out
now that no,
now they stop whatever form of income they have now,
no one that they owes money to is actually going to ever get paid back.
Right?
Isn't that could be problematic.
Yeah.
Or you now you have like a little conflict with this person.
Now you got to deal with whatever comes of that.
I'm saying it's kind of like don't like,
what do you call it?
We need,
you know,
muddy the waters or whatever,
like don't disturb the waters kind of thing.
And then hopefully,
which usually actually is the case in social in social situations where they're
going to play themselves anyway.
So yeah,
that's true.
That gets out.
You can't like,
but I don't like people taking people's money.
Yeah.
So I'm going to have a problem with this person.
That's the bottom line.
Yeah.
Fully.
And I think most people,
that's how it is.
You know,
they didn't like that.
So,
and I think the weird thing is social people,
they don't,
they don't be coming around me if they,
I kind of give off the vibe of like,
Hey,
you don't want to be acting that way around me.
Yeah.
So I don't have a lot of people like that hanging around.
There it is.
Going back to the book,
only when human rather than material aspects of operation are put upper most can
tactical bodies be conditioned to make the most of their potential unity.
Okay.
So the human being,
he's saying that human beings are more important.
It is beyond question that the most serious and repeated breakdowns on the field
of combat are caused by failure of controls over human nature.
Yeah,
but Marie,
that again,
it is beyond question that the most serious and repeated breakdowns on the field
of combat are caused by failure of the controls over human nature.
Not Tactics,
not weapons,
not machinery,
not physical strength,
but human nature.
And guess what?
I agree with that.
We all granted the soldier must be trained for initiative and encouraged to
think about what is problem while in combat.
So he,
again,
he talks about a lot about initiative and that's one of the things that
that I think was very positive and that's one of the things that influenced me
knowing that it was important for people to have initiative and knowing that you
can't control what everyone on the battlefield and understanding decentralized
command back to the book,
our training methods are conditioned by the ideal of automatic response.
So he's saying like,
we think that the best thing,
the best ideal is just automatic response.
That's what we want.
At the same time.
Our observation of the battlefields reality makes it clear to us that we need
men who can think through their situation and steel themselves for action
according to the situation,
so we don't want automatic response.
We want people that can think the thinking soldier,
the man who's trained for self starting cannot be matured in a school which
holds to the vestiges of Bulla belief that automatic action is the ideal thing
in the soldier.
Again,
this is undeniable,
undeniable.
We want people that are there things think for themselves.
I hold it to be one of the simplest truths of war,
that the thing which enables an infantry soldier to keep going with his weapons
is the near presence or the presumed presence of a comrade.
It happened too frequently in our army.
That aligned company was careless about the manner in which it received a new
replacement.
The Stranger was not introduced to his superiors nor was there time for him to
feel the friendly interest of his immediate associates before he was ordered
forward with the attack.
The result was the man's total failure in battle and has returned to the rear as
a mental case.
So it is far more than a question of the soldiers need a physical support from
other men.
He must have at least some feeling of spiritual unity with them if he used to do
an efficient job of moving and fighting.
This is very important,
and I work with companies all the time.
So you take an army unit and you throw a random guy in there,
a random replacement and no one meets him and no one talks to him and all of a
sudden they're going on in attack.
He's going to fail.
That's the statement because he doesn't,
he doesn't know anyone else and he goes more into detail on this in the in the
book.
But that happens with companies where they have some new new person check on
board,
they get hired,
they check on board.
No one meets him.
No one greets him.
No one becomes friends with them.
They're in their own isolated little world.
The pressure starts to come and they bail or they break.
Yeah,
I think so.
He talks more about this in chapter four,
which is called combat isolation.
And there's a quote that it starts off from Major General Charles W,
O Daniel,
and it says,
the finest theories in most minute plans often crumble.
Complex systems fall by the wayside.
Parade ground formations disappear are splendidly trained leaders vanish.
The good men,
which we had at the beginning are gone.
The raw truth is before us,
right?
That's good,
Yeah.
And obviously law of combat number to keep things simple,
that's exactly what he's talking about.
You got to keep things simple.
But he's also saying that everything that you come up with these complex things,
they're going to fall apart in combat.
That's what happens.
And now we talk,
talking about the name of the chapters,
combat I isolation.
And he starts talking about what it's like when these soldiers get on the
battlefield.
He's talking about the battlefields cold and it's harsh and it's empty and
there's,
it's it chills a man's soul is what he's saying.
And then when the fire starts here,
we go back to the book.
He finds himself suddenly almost alone in his hour of greatest danger and he can
feel the danger,
but there is nothing out there,
nothing to contend against.
It is from the mixture of mystification and fear that there comes the feeling of
helplessness,
which in turn produces greater fear.
That is what green troops are up against time and again,
I have heard them say after their first try at combat by God,
there was never a situation like it.
We saw no one we were fighting phantoms and is frequently they have and as
frequently they have added this though their convictions about the matter.
We're wholly at odds with the fact of the situation.
We had to do it all alone.
We got no support on either flank.
So he's talking about the fact that where you feel alone on the battlefield and
the fact that guys would come back and say,
even though they were fully supportive,
it didn't matter.
They fought.
They were a little out there and that that's what he's talking about.
He goes on the enemy.
Now he's talking about if firefights situation,
the enemy fire builds up.
Its aim becomes true or the man spread.
The men spread further and further from each other moving individually to
whatever cover his nearest or affords the best protection.
A few of them fire their pieces.
At first they do so almost timidly as if fearing a rebuke for wasting ammunition
when they do not see the enemy.
Others do nothing.
Some fail to act mainly because they are puzzled what to do and their leaders do
not tell them.
Others are wholly unnerved and can neither think nor move insensible relation to
the situation.
Such response as the men make have to enemy fire tens mainly to produce greater
separation in the elements of the company,
thereby intensifying,
intensifying the feeling of isolation and the insecurity of its individuals.
The junior leaders are affected as much as the rifle files,
so when chaos starts,
people start to be alone.
That again,
this can apply to the battlefield.
This can apply to the business world.
When chaos starts,
people start to focus on their own little world.
And the more you focus on your own little world,
the more separation there is,
the less a unity there is in the,
in your unit to make something happen.
Now he goes on back to the book.
Could one clear commanding voice be raised even though it be the voice of an
individual without titular a 40 they would obey,
or at least the stronger characters would do,
would do so,
and the weaker would begin to take heart because something is being done.
I got to see this over and when I was running training,
got to these over and over and over and over again.
As matter of fact,
we,
uh,
lay road chapter about it in the dichotomy of leadership of situations where one
situation in particular,
where there was no voice,
no one's taking charge.
Finally,
someone steps up and take charge and it's like,
boom,
everything changes.
But clear commanding voices are all too rare on the battle,
on the field of battle.
So they wait,
doing nothing and inaction takes further toll on their resolve.
More grievous losses will no doubt come to this band of men in time.
But as a company,
this is the worst hour that they will ever know.
So it's a downward spiral.
If no one steps up and starts making calls,
you start taking casualties.
Now if people panic even more,
they get more than their own little world.
They become more detached from each other.
Less unity of what you're trying to make happen.
Okay?
Back to the book.
It would serve no purpose to dwell on the discouraging detail of this ordeal if
it were not for the belief that much of the is unnecessary and that the infantry
soldier can find a better way.
One must not come to rest on Clausewitz gloomy warning that quote in war,
the novice is met only by pitch black night.
On beyond that,
there are words to be read.
It is of the first importance that the soldier higher low should not have to
encounter in war things.
Which scene for the first time set him in terror or perplexity.
So that's cost.
Talking about training.
You've got to get people ready for this chaos and mayhem.
You've got to get it,
get them ready for it.
You've got to get them ready.
You got to show them that when people panic and people are are getting
separated,
that one commanding voice go on.
Leaders stepping up and leading will have a massive impact on the situation and
failure to do that.
We'll also have a massive impact but it will be a massive negative impact.
Now he talks chapter five is called ratio of fire and here we get into his
little hypotheses.
I'm not going to waste a lot of time on it,
but I'm going to bring it up back to the book.
Now,
I do not think I've seen it stated in the military manuals of this age or an any
of the writings meant for the instruction of those who lead troops that a
commander of infantry will be well advised to believe that when he engages the
enemy,
not more than one quarter of his men will ever strike a real blow unless they
are,
unless they are compelled by almost overpowering circumstances or unless all
junior leaders constantly ride herd on troops with specific mission of
increasing their fire.
The 25% estimate stands for even for well trained and campaign season troops.
I mean that 75% will not fire,
will not persist in firing against the enemy and his works.
These men may face danger but will not fight.
So that's his hypothesis.
And actually the beginning of this book has a foreword in it that I'm just going
to touch on.
The forwards is written by a guy named Russell Glen and he,
he points out some of the disputes against this.
What about this?
This low ratio fire.
So he,
we go back to the book.
This is the introduction.
So this isn't SLA.
Marshall,
this is from the introduction from Russell Glen Marshall's ratio of fire values
did not go unchallenged even when they first appeared in 1947 general James Am
Gavin,
World War II commander of the 82nd airborne division discounted the low
estimates,
as did Harry w o Canard,
who served in the hundred and first airborne division in every one of its combat
actions during World War II and later commanded the first cavalry division in
Vietnam.
Well,
legendary General Bruce Clark,
commander of the u s forces that defended St biff during the battle of the
bulge,
flatly discounted Marshall finding his values,
ridiculous and dangerous assertions,
absolute nonsense.
Another combat veteran,
British author,
George McDonald Frazier instead question Marshall's explanations for why
soldiers fail to engage the enemy.
Frazier had served.
So one of the things that Marshall says is that people aren't,
aren't,
are taught not to kill.
And you know,
it's against the commandments of God and it's bad to kill.
And so that's one of the things we have a moral and inherent moral objection to
killing.
And so,
so this guy,
Donald Frazier Frazier,
had served in Burma as an infantry men,
though he recognized that moral upbringing might influence men's behavior,
his firsthand experience failed to support Marshall's rationale.
Frazier wrote that we all have kindly impulses fostered by 2000 years of
Christian teaching gentle Jesus and love thy neighbor.
But we have the killer instinct to the murderous impulse of the hunter.
And so the introduction of the book goes on and talks about many vets that just
outright deny this.
And I do too.
And I never saw,
I never saw or felt any hesitation or saw anyone that I was with hesitate in any
way to engage.
In fact,
quite the opposite.
Most guys were more than ready to get after it.
And I'm not just talking about seals,
I'm talking about army infantry men.
I'm talking about marines.
The guys are guys are not hesitating.
I mean broadly,
you could never make a statement like this.
Could you make a statement that some people hesitate?
Yes,
you could make that statement.
But to broadly say that only 15 to 25% of people aren't going to actively engage
the enemy from everything I saw,
that's patently untrue.
Now the advantage in what we had for an advantage,
and Marshall kind of claims this too,
is that once World War II was over and they started training us to shoot at one
of the big objections he has that that guys were getting trained to shoot
bullseye targets,
right?
So that your training,
shoot a bullseye.
When you first see a man you're like,
oh no,
that's a man.
We,
my whole career,
I barely ever shot a bullseye target.
We did that when we had to qualify with a rifle or a pistol.
Every single other time we shot,
we were shooting a man shaped target.
I mean we would shoot little round targets or what were they called?
Head plates,
right?
Of course shooting,
get heads or shooting body shots where shooting,
that's what we do all the time and we'd shoot.
So we shoot targets with pictures on them,
with faces on them that look like people.
And then on top of that we did force on force training where we're actually
shooting paint balls or simunition at other human beings and we're gunning him
down.
Yeah.
So there's a lot of conditioning that we had that maybe that's why we were so
much more apt and able and willing to shoot.
But
yeah.
Yeah.
It's um,
from,
you know,
you can see from what these other vets said and these other leaders said and my
personal experience,
um,
and you'll find that I think SLA Marshall,
like I said,
I think he just had a hypothesis you wanted to talk about and threw it out there
without really good facts behind it.
So I'm not going to waste a bunch of time talking about that and I'm going to go
to the next chapter.
Fire is the cure.
Finally.
It is the volume of fire that counts.
You win if you kill more of the enemy than he can kill a view.
If you cannot,
you are to feed in that secretary of war.
Robert Patterson.
And again,
I'll go back to this fire counts for sure.
It's important,
but you got to maneuver.
It's covering move.
It's not just covering fire.
It's like you got to cover and move.
That's,
that's to me,
they go hand in hand,
which actually he says
back to the book,
fundamentally,
fire must always be beaten by fire.
Fundamentally,
movement is the means.
Increasing the efficiency of one's own fire until the last strength of the
enemy's fire is reduced to a vantage.
Important.
Okay.
I mean,
okay.
If you want to say that you're maneuvering so that you can maneuver so you can
fire even better.
That's,
that's technically true or you're maneuvering so you can break contact,
but you could say that.
Yeah.
Here's another quote.
Let us not think of mobility in an army general.
Charles piece,
summer all once said,
unless we think of mobility accompanied by violence,
that's covering move this fire maneuver.
That's what we're talking about.
Okay.
Combat can cannot ever approximate the conditions of field maneuvers.
Fears of varying sort afflict the soldier in battle.
The unit commander soon comes to realize that one of his difficulties to get men
to leave cover because of enemy bullets and the fear they instill in training.
There being no real bullet danger.
Even on the courses which employ live ammunition.
Every advance under a supposed enemy fire is unrealistic to in training.
The soldier does not have a man as his target.
He is not shooting with the idea of killing.
There is a third vast difference in the two conditions.
The rifleman and training is usually under close soup observation and the chief
pressure upon him is to give satisfaction to his superior.
Whereas the rifleman engaging the enemy is of necessity pretty much on his own
and the chief pressure on him is to remain alive if possible.
When the infantry men mind when the infantry man's mind is gripped by fear,
his body is captured by inertia,
which is fears Siamese twin in an attack,
half of the men on a firing line are in terror and the other half are unnerved.
So wrote Major General JFC fuller when he was a young captain.
So again,
this is what I kind of already talked about,
the idea that in training you're shooting at,
you're not shooting with this intent to kill and we,
that's what we did all the time.
I mean that's just how we rolled.
In fact,
they make targets where like blood comes out when you shoot and balloon blows up
and blood,
you see blood.
So they're trying to condition you.
And they talk about this with video games too,
right?
That these young kids come up killing all the time and these video games which
are very,
very realistic and therefore they get conditioned to killing and they don't
think it's a big deal anymore,
which clearly that you could tie that into a school shootings.
A lot of people tie that into school shootings and say,
hey these kids were playing these video games or they're just killing people all
the time and that conditioned them to be able to kill these innocent people in a
school.
So there is,
like I said,
for me the all I ever shot at basically was human targets.
Things that look like people.
And again I've seen the video games that they are so realistic,
it's unbelievable.
And so that's another good form of conditioning to get you over the,
if you have any moral objection to killing.
Now the,
the counter statement to that,
this is it good for people to get over the moral condition of killing some
people know if you're not a soldier.
That's probably a bad thing I would say.
Yeah.
Even though the video game thing,
it seems like there's like a step before that to for someone to get conditioned
to kill him because I don't know,
obviously my last intense video game experiences like playstation two which
seems like a long time ago,
but so yeah,
the video games a realistic,
but it seems like that they have to get past a certain step two consider the
video games as being,
so you guys,
like when you guys were,
you know,
NC training and you know,
in the seal teams you guys are specifically training for that specific thing
that was on your mind.
So you're past the point of the moral objection part of it.
See what I'm saying?
So let's say you weren't passing the moral objection part of it and you were
just shooting,
whether it be video games or shooting at the range or shooting at these other
things.
And you were like,
oh,
hey,
I know this is,
I'm not training for anything specifically.
I'm just sort of doing it.
Whether it be for fonder to get better at shooting or or better at this game or
whatever.
If you're not passing the moral objection part,
is it really training you to be less,
more,
more Lee,
uh,
got some major issues,
a school shooting,
and then you're sitting there playing these video games and you're killing
people over and over again.
It's conditioning.
Yeah.
That's what I mean.
You put anyone in a,
you know,
you get someone that works in a slaughter house,
they don't think twice about killing a pig or killing a cow or whatever.
That's what they do.
They don't think a millisecond about it.
Whereas you take someone that's never seen an animal killed before and it'll be
disturbing to them.
Right.
So that right there is,
their conditioning is a thing.
Right?
Right.
And if you watch a bunch of,
you know,
a bunch of videos of something being killed,
you would become conditioned to it.
And if you play a game where you kill people all the time,
you will become conditioned to it.
Now that I don't really think this is even debatable.
Yeah.
But I feel,
yeah,
I agree.
But I feel like there's this one kind of crucial step before that.
Like if you consider a slaughterhouse person,
like there's a difference between working in a slaughterhouse and being
conditioned to the sight and the smell and the experience of doing it,
but not having the barrier that's like,
okay,
I'm going to make a decision to do this under,
you know,
a different circumstance.
Something that's more and more morally tied.
Well,
yeah,
I mean,
and let's face the fact there's millions and hundreds of millions of people that
play video games all day long and they're not going out there and have no
intention of going out there.
And you're,
but you,
okay.
So yeah,
I see what you're saying.
If,
if you start thinking that way and that becomes your intent than it is
conditioning because you can even consider someone on the opposite where,
let's say they're morally,
um,
what do,
what do you call it?
The moral barrier has been crossed in their head or they're weird.
They're a psychopath,
I don't know,
you know,
in their brain and then they've never killed anyone or anything like that.
So I heard a,
actually I read this thing on Saddam Hussein's son,
something's doable.
Yup.
And so the first time how they'd quote unquote conditioned them,
they'd be like,
Hey,
you know,
here's some prisoners.
Shoot him,
kill him.
Right.
So the first time,
no,
the first time,
not these kids not conditioned in this way to,
you know,
to have the experience of killing somebody and watch them die and whatever.
So the first time they give him the gun,
the guy,
the kid shoots him up,
empties the clip,
right.
The kid who was past that moral barrier long time ago.
But first time unconditioned into as far as the experience goes,
he turns to the guard and goes,
hey,
can I have
another magazine to do it?
So he really liked it.
He didn't need necessarily conditioning because he was passed that more apart.
See what I'm saying?
Yeah.
So yeah,
it feels like there they are two separate things.
But once you kind of crossed that,
that initial moral barrier.
Oh yeah.
The more conditioned you are,
the,
you know,
the more effect.
I mean,
I hate to use the word effect,
but more into it you are or the less impact it'll have like on your brain or
whatever.
Yeah.
And again,
we would get good.
This is one of the things we get quoted on SLA.
Marshall was this stuff about how as the target's got more realistic if it
encouraged people and made them more comfortable with shooting and killing.
That's the point.
Um,
Dan I believe.
Yeah,
that's true.
It's true.
It's the way it is.
Uh,
going back to the book as another experiment unwilling rifleman may have,
may be switched to heavier and more decisive one man weapons.
This sounds like a paradox to expect greater response to come from increased
responsibility.
This is good.
So he's saying you got a rifle in this doesn't want to shoot,
give them a bigger,
more effective weapon.
He says,
this sounds like a paradox to expect greater response to come from an increased
responsibility,
but it works.
I've seen many cases where men who had,
who had funked it badly with a rifle responded heroically,
wouldn't give it a flame thrower or a bar.
Self pride and the ego are the touchstone of most of these remarkable
conversions.
A man may fail with the rifle because he feels anonymous and believes that
nothing important is being asked of him.
So that's pretty cool cause I talked about this all the time cause he had,
cause everyone has a rifle,
everyone's got a rifle and he's like,
okay,
let's not really,
I'm not really that important.
Then you give them like a heavy weapon or a heavy machine gun or a flame thrower
and all of a sudden he's like,
Oh yeah,
I'm the man.
I'm going to step up and make this happen.
Which if I've talked about this many times on the podcast,
if you get someone that's not doing their job or they need to do a better job or
what have you,
if you can give them more responsibility,
they have a good chance of actually stepping up and making things happen.
Rudolph the red nose reindeer.
Uh,
I'm not familiar with what I'm familiar with Rudolph the red nose.
Okay.
So Rudolph was the only one with the red nose and before they were like,
they used to tease them and all this stuff,
you know,
so he,
he thought he was inferior.
But when Santa was like,
hey,
your nose is so bright,
won't you guide my slate tonight?
I get to guide the sleigh.
Hail.
Yes.
Steps up.
Does the job there,
you know what I'm saying?
Check.
Yeah.
So you can edit that out if you want the same thing conceptually.
Conceptually it's true.
All right,
next back to the book.
And last,
if we are to strengthen sound training principles and establish mental attitudes
which are essential to the understanding of the decisive importance of fire in
tactics,
we will be
well advised to cease talking about fire and movement as if the latter,
we're separate and apart from the former in tactical fact there and there did
not exist an automatic and unbreakable connection between them.
So now he's saying the same thing that I was saying earlier is fire is not more
important.
They're the same thing.
Fire maneuver.
Covered move have to happen together.
That's what he's saying.
Fire is the key to mobility to fire is to move.
So it goes on.
Now this next section,
again,
this is great because next section is called them multiples of information.
The multiples of information and what's great about this is he's no longer
talking about,
he's no longer talking about tactics of fire maneuver and this percentage of
fire and all that because he's out of his element there.
To be quite honest with you,
this one,
he's going to get into his element,
which is,
well,
I'll go to it.
I consider to be of utmost importance that keeping informed of our men as to
current situation so that each man may perform his duty with understanding of
its importance and that Sergeant David t bolt in a letter written from the
African theater,
so you gotta keep your people informed.
Having started to call this chapter communications,
I decided against it for fear.
That use of that rather formidable word might interfere with my communicating to
the reader what I regard as a vital but frequently overlooked principle of minor
tactics.
If a word comes to mean too many things,
it frequently mrs fire at the critical point that has been the fate of the word
communications at his become another military catchall.
And because it means so many things,
it is quite frequently means nothing to illustrate.
A regimental commander asks the company commander,
how were your communications?
And the latter replies,
excellent because it's telephone line is working and is supply is coming forward
and at the same time he is at the point of despair because he hasn't had
anything worthwhile,
any worthwhile intelligence from his flanks for hours.
So there's a difference between communication like I can talk to you and actual
communication.
You're telling you what I need to know.
One would think that it would become almost second nature to the commander to
reach eagerly toward supporting forces.
One would imagine that when ever on the field of battle he made contact with a
friendly element.
That fact would flash a red light and his brain causing him automatically to
raise the question,
have I established full communications?
Do I know the strength and intentions of the force now helping me?
Do they know my strength and intentions,
but indeed such is not the case.
Communications
information is the soul of morale and combat and the balancing force in
successful tactics.
And now he talks a little bit about communication and gives some guidelines
about them and and what the problems are.
So information is super important to hear some of the problems.
One,
there is a lacking.
There is lacking a general recognition of the supreme importance of the lateral
flow of information to command at the lower levels is too often neglectful of
the principle that it is not a channel of information only,
but a distribution point.
So you've got to pass the word.
Three commanders at the lower levels tend to be arbitrary judges of what
information deriving from a source lower would be highly useful to the other
elements lower down instead of abiding by the rule.
When in doubt,
pass it along.
So when in doubt pass along.
Now I do have to throw out that there can be a dicot.
There's a dichotomy there because you can communicate things too much.
You can send too many emails,
you can send too many messages,
you can do that,
that can be a problem.
And he actually talks about that dichotomy a little bit.
So he's just talking about how much you should communicate.
And then he gets to this point back to the book in the Pacific Fighting,
I found company commanders joining a platoon in the line just to isolate
themselves from their telephones.
They were literally tired to death of having the battalion commander insist on
having a fresh progress report every 15 or 20 minutes and the battalion
commander,
poor devil was only passing on the pressure which he had in turn receive from a
regimental commander who is trying to placate division
yet one would observe that unless a battalion commander is wholly lacking in
judgment or intestinal fortitude,
he should be strong enough to take this on his aching back and not pass it down
to the headquarters,
which is at grips with the enemy.
This happens all the time in the military for sure.
The senior commanders going,
I want to know what's going on,
and it tells that to the next junior guy.
He says,
all right,
I'll find out what's going on then that guys is,
I'll find out what's going on.
And the people in the front line,
they can't even fight cause they're too busy trying to answer the damn questions
from up the chain of command.
So don't let that happen.
Back to the book in the burden island fight during the invasion of the marshals,
one of these prodding demands for more progress raced from division right
through lower headquarters to a platoon which had been stopped cold by Jap fire
coming from spider holes arranged in great depth along the beach.
The lieutenant got the message and crawling forward to them.
His most advanced rifleman told them to get up and go on.
The boy screamed.
So the whole God damn army wants me to,
wants to kill me.
Does it?
Okay Lieutenant,
here I go.
But watch what happens.
He was shot almost before
he had gotten out of his tracks.
Okay.
That incident see are deep into the brain of every man who witnessed it.
It was final judgment on the futility of that kind of leading
decentralized command.
Who's going to make a better call,
somebody back in the rear or this lieutenant that's there on the beach
back to the book.
The all too frequent consequences of such pressure are lining exaggeration and
distortion of the situation at lower levels resulting in a false concept of the
situation.
At the higher,
the average company commander can stand only a limited amount of this heat and
then he will knock over a couple of outhouses and report that he has captured of
village.
It also,
this effect also makes a wishful thinker of the most objective shold soldier.
He re he reasons to himself.
I'll have that position and another hour,
so I'll tell him that I have it now and get them off my back.
Okay,
so lots about communication being important.
Next is the riddle of command.
Many headquarters people become strangers to the front and cannot speak its
language or understand it's tribulations.
Okay?
You don't know what's going on in the front lines if you don't have any idea.
If you can't even speak their language anymore,
you need to get down there.
You need to find out what's going on in the front lines.
Businesses.
That means you too.
The diabolical effect of even such a relatively simple instrument as the field
telephone is that it may come to command the commander,
the phone actually gets control of view a chained him to a system of remote
control.
At first he sees it only as a successful as it useful channel for quick
communication in combat.
Then he fears to leave at lest it should require his presence in headquarters
the moment after he leaves to go forward.
Okay.
This state of mind in turn creates its own illusion.
Fostering that,
fostering the conclusion that under the new system of war all matters can be
settled at a distance.
All problems arising within the zone of fire can be fully understood without
ever going there and all moral values,
which ones attended the commanders effort to impress his men with his
personality and character are somehow sundered by the new technology of
operations.
Okay.
Sedentary General Ship Arises Evil of troops which while bang mechanically have
no organic thinking response to the commander as well.
So,
I mean,
how,
how poignant is this for,
it's what we live in today,
right?
Everyone thinks they can just send a text message and the problem solved.
Just make a quick phone call and the problem solved.
And actually the reality is sometimes you need to get down there.
Yeah.
Also the whole thing about it controlling you,
you know,
do you forget
your phone?
Do you have that at all?
Like when you leave your phone at home or in the car or something like that
where you don't have it for like know,
I don't forget things a lot.
That doesn't really happen to me a lot.
Um,
but yeah,
I would say if I left my phone somewhere I would be like,
Oh Dang,
I wonder,
I'm just trying to call me right now.
I wonder if there's an emergency going on.
But you know,
back in the day when were,
you know,
whatever teenagers or whatever,
oh,
presale phones,
presale,
teenage pre,
pre cell phone.
I was writing on the deal.
There was no,
there was no internet.
I was telling my kids the other day that when I was a kid there was no internet
that did.
It was not a thing.
It's like saying there is no roads.
It's the same thing for my kids.
They're like,
what?
They were looking at me like,
What did she,
how did you not just because you had to go to the library to look something up,
get an encyclopedia.
I remember thinking encyclopedias were more or like holy,
you know what I mean?
There were so many dictionaries.
I thought that was like up like a holy book all filled with,
my mom had a,
had a,
had an OED Oxford English dictionary,
not the full,
the full one is a follow Hume's.
The phone was 26 volumes or something crazy like that,
but my mom had one that was big.
I mean it was big.
It was six inches thick.
Yeah,
it was like six,
maybe six inches thick and big and it had the little tabs.
Little indentations from,
yeah,
your fingers.
But I to me that things seemed like some kind of Bible,
like some kind of just seems so filled with knowledge and if you didn't know
what a word was,
you just had to go look it up in that thing.
You didn't know what a thing was.
You look it up in the encyclopedia,
go to the library and look it up in the encyclopedias.
Nowadays you're three seconds away.
You got that Google.
Yeah you want to look in the dictionary,
dictionary.com boom.
Need those fingers.
Unless you got that through the APP.
Oh the apple and even better cause you got to want to get that etymology of the
word to you.
I don't know where it comes from.
That stuff.
Then you got what's the,
the street language won't.
What does Ellen?
Well in the urban dictionary Nixon,
it's kind of fun balance.
Here's the thing,
it's weird.
It's like it is fun and it's funny but it's very useful cause you don't want
people,
they'll say stuff and you'd be like,
wait,
wait.
You have to look some things up on urban dictionary and a couple of times,
I'm trying to think of a good example right now,
but I can't think of one next time I will.
I will.
I will note that it,
cause you know I got teenage kids so sometimes they got some words.
Yeah.
You got to know that.
Like we're saying something a couple of years ago Hifi remember?
No,
I don't remember that.
Well that's not,
oh that's new.
Hifi.
What does it mean?
Well,
I don't know if I can define it specifically,
but it means like get fired up dope.
Oh,
okay.
Hifi 50 cent or somebody,
I don't know.
Anyway,
but yeah,
but that's the thing though.
You,
you lose or you forget your cell phone,
you go to the store,
I dunno,
you're going to Vons and you'd leave by accident and whatever your phone at
home,
it's like,
oh yeah.
And just like how you said,
you got those thoughts like,
oh,
what if there's an emergency?
What if someone's calling me kind of thing.
All you gotta do is splash calls.
Yeah.
Or this is the one day that there's like anywhere to nuts to say that you can't
have an emergency.
He's totally can,
but it's like literally the 99.9999999% of the time you have access to that
phone.
That one teeny,
teeny tiny sliver of time that you don't,
oh no.
All the emergency is going to come.
See what I'm saying.
And you think back to when you,
when there was no cell phones,
it's like,
oh,
did you ever get along?
No,
I'm doing that right now.
I'm going with my without my cell phone.
But everyone around.
Here's the thing though,
with that everyone around you kind of feels the same thing.
So like for example,
if you go to the store,
all right,
if I go to the store,
people know I go to the store or people know I went to store.
My wife knows,
you know,
maybe if I'm like hanging out with friends very,
I'm going to start a real quick,
right?
We're having a barbecue.
I don't know.
They expect me to have my phone and I expect to have a phone.
So it's like that communication now communication,
the standard of communication is way higher now seem saying like your access to
someone else's.
I'll tell you one thing that is a kind of a bummer.
And I,
you know,
for a long time I responded to like everybody that reached out to me and,
and I just can't,
I mean I can't do it.
I just,
it's physical.
I would be doing nothing but sitting around doing that and it's really cool man.
I get letters and emails and Facebook and dms on,
you know,
and I just don't have time and I feel bad.
You know,
I read most everything but it's been getting crazy.
And here's the thing,
and I think this is important to understand overall for kind of,
for you,
for sure,
for everyone,
when someone,
you know how like someone will text you or someone will send you a,
like a message,
like a long message and some,
it's easy to think like,
hey,
you could have responded with like just something rather than nothing.
But here's the thing.
That's not true because if someone sends you a text message or especially
something long and meaningful,
like you don't want to just reply back with,
okay or okay,
I'll text you later more about this message.
That makes me less sense.
You want to have something kind of thought out so it's not just a small little
response or you who doesn't have time to send one text.
Well the thing is,
yeah,
physically sending the texts,
it doesn't take any time but to consider you're a a valid or appropriate
response to most texts and men,
especially in your case where you getting messages,
legit messages.
You can't just be like,
cool and then move on to the next day.
You can't do that.
So you got to consider all these things and then all that consideration.
That's what takes the time and mental energy by the way.
Like,
like,
like you can't go in one direction mentally and just pivot real quick and be
yeah,
let me just mentally accommodate this.
You know,
it's like,
man,
it takes more thought than that.
So it's hard to fit it all in.
Especially for,
you know,
it is,
man,
I feel bad when I can't get back to people,
but I appreciate them reaching out and letting me know that they're getting good
information.
Right.
Yeah.
Whether it's work related,
whether it's individual,
personal related,
their kids,
whatever,
warrior king,
I mean all kinds of good stuff.
And I'm so stoked.
But like you said,
it's like
I can't literally just cannot see.
You just tried.
Yeah,
I tried.
So I posted today,
I was like,
hey,
it's Monday.
Sometimes life gets up her hand and you've got to go,
you've got to attack.
And that's why I was feeling this weekend.
I was like,
cause I've been on the road.
We went to Maine,
didn't get a lot of work done a main cause we were working in Maine,
we were rolling and then we were working in recording podcasts and interviewing
and all this other stuff.
So didn't have a lot of time up there,
got a little bit behind life,
got the upper hand on me.
And so I was kind of feeling it on when I got home.
And then when I said it was,
oh,
you know what I'm going to do so Sunday I just,
I'm just going to work all day.
Just get you,
just get busy.
Because people were talking to me about the kids podcast.
Yeah.
Podcast.
Where's the other guy?
You know?
Hey Gang,
my kids love listening to it when listening to it for them.
We're listening to the first 16 episodes for the ninth time now.
Can you make another one or are you given up on that?
I'm like,
Whoa,
those are straight up.
So,
so I got after that,
recorded some of that today.
But,
but that's what I did go on the attack,
like,
and that really does it really like by the end,
by,
by the end of Sunday,
I was like,
oh my God.
And I thought,
I thought it's was gonna be late night on Sunday.
I thought midnight,
which,
you know,
I don't want to go to bed at midnight on a Sunday night.
I got to got done,
it's like nine 45 at night.
And I was like,
oh.
And I was ahead.
I was back ahead that I had to get aggressive.
I had to dig deep.
I had to go like,
okay,
this is what's going on.
So if you start feeling that little life's getting the upper hand,
if you,
if you let it continue to maneuver on you,
it's going to get worse.
If you go,
oh,
you think you're gonna get the upper hand,
watch this,
I'm going to get aggressive.
I'm gonna knock out so much stuff in the next 24 hours.
You're not even know what just happened,
son.
So that's how I went at it as is actually,
I made the video on Monday.
Technically it was a Sunday evolution,
but by the time Monday rolled around,
I was back in the game.
That's true.
Like if you get the,
or some some one else,
something else gets the upper hand.
It's like Dang,
you got to work double time.
Just slowly.
It doesn't have the apprehended anymore.
Once you get the upper hand,
okay,
yeah,
you can boom you.
Can you find your read though,
by the
way,
when you,
when you get the upper hand,
it's like when you're playing a sport and the team starts to get the little
upper hand and then they just,
they can start taking a little bit more risks.
They get a little bit more confident.
Yeah.
And they get the more match.
They get the momentum and they start going and that's productive,
right?
That they widen that scored,
run up the score.
Boy.
And so that's same thing I'm thinking.
But I had me on the ropes a little bit.
You know,
it was on the ropes.
I was on the ropes over here and I had to,
I had to get it.
I woke up early and I was just boom,
I'm gonna Start Hammering.
And that's what you gotta do.
Finished reading a book,
wrote another book,
edited a book.
I had a stack of stuff.
Come and get some,
be aggressive.
Oh,
okay.
So the communication.
Thanks.
So here's the other thing that happens with modern communications.
Text messaging,
emails.
You started losing that little personal touch,
which is important.
Here we go back to the book with is characteristically warm humor.
General Eisenhower W has commented on the value of the personal factor in the
commander's relation to his men under the conditions of modern war.
I found that it did a great deal of good to get down to my troops in the combat
area.
My presence relaxed them and made them feel more comfortable about the
situation,
but I was not deceived as to the reason I knew what was running through their
minds.
They were saying to themselves,
there must be less danger than we thought,
or the old man wouldn't be here.
Yeah,
get down.
Talk to the troops here.
We talk about this as a part of the nature of the combat soldier.
Once he loses that faith,
it becomes a very difficult to resolve it.
He will lose it very quickly.
When he sees that casualties are wasted on useless operations or when he begins
to feel that he is in any respect of the victim of bad planning or faulty
concepts,
that's important.
Then he responds to that principle,
which was once well stated by General James hardboard discipline and moral
influence,
the inarticulate vote that is constantly taken by masses of men when the order
to comes to move forward.
When the order comes to move forward,
a variant of the crowd psychology that inclines it to follow a leader,
but the army does not move forward until the motion is carried.
Unanimous consent only falls cooperation between the invent individual men in
ranks.
That's a bold statement like,
hey,
you can give that order,
but until everybody kind of knows that it's a good plan,
we're not going.
Here's another good statement.
By rough approximation,
60% of the art of command is the ability to anticipate 40% of the Arctic command
is ability to improvise,
to reject the preconceived idea that has been tested and proved wrong in the
crucible of operations and to rule by action instead of acting by rules.
That's a good one,
by the way.
That's the entire Arctic command,
right?
That's,
that's 100% anticipation and ability to improvise.
Obviously there's some more factors in there,
but those are some important ones.
Yes,
there's,
and I don't think I pulled it out,
but there's also one part in the book where it says anticipation is important,
but it's,
you can't just say somewhat,
hey,
anticipate harder,
like anticipate more.
It's hard to say to that someone,
someone's got to have experience,
someone's got to have the mindset for it.
They've got an old,
they've got a free their mind and open their minds and that they can be aware of
little nuances that are happening and changes that are occurring.
It can't be down in the weeds or else you can't anticipate anything because
you're getting knocked around and the in the dust and the dirt.
Yeah,
so it's kind of like a pay attention kind of thing.
Like it's a,
it's a way of paying attention.
I think really the key is detachment because if you can't detach,
you're not going to be able to anticipate anything cause you're in.
And that's why there's the obvious dichotomy here.
Yeah.
Do you want to go down and be with the troops?
Absolutely.
But can you go down and be with troops so much that you lose track of what's
happening at a strategic level and you can anticipate what's happening?
No,
you can't do that dichotomy of leadership.
You've got to balance it.
Okay.
Back to the book during war,
it oftentime happens that one company by trial and error finds the true solution
for some acute problem which concerns everyone.
Okay,
but when that happens to a company,
I can assure you that is the exceptional company officer who takes the
initiative and passes.
It,
passes his unique solution along to his superiors even after he has proved and
battle that the idea works.
A good company idea in tactics is likely to remain confined to one company
indefinitely,
even though it would be a benefit to the whole military of stop establishment.
And this is what this is just dealing with silos.
It happens in the military,
it happens in the civilian sector.
Somebody figures something out and they keep it to themselves.
The fundamental purpose of all training today should be to develop the natural
phys ed faculties and to stimulate the brain of the soldier rather than to treat
him as a cog which has been fitted into a great machine.
Got to keep pointing that out.
Loyalty in the masses of men wax is strong in the degree that they are made to
believe that real importance is attached to their work and to their ability to
think about their work.
So
you got to get people engaged and can people gotta understand and believe that
what they're doing is important and they got to have some kind of say they got
to have some control over their own fate.
It weekends at every point where they consider that there is a negative respect
for their intelligence.
This rule applies whether a man is engaged in digging a ditch or in working up a
loading table for an invasion.
So if you have negative respect for people's intelligence that I'm not going to
do a good job,
big chunk,
a little bit of a big chunk here to square training with the reality of war.
It becomes a necessary part of the young officers' mental equipment for training
to instill in him the full realization that in combat many things can and will
go wrong without it being anyone's fault in particular.
So what did I just say?
Things are going to happen is no one's fault.
Does that really?
Does that really marry up with the idea of extreme ownership?
Well not really Greg,
cause I'm taking ownership of anything.
However,
keep listening.
War is aimed at destruction.
The fire and general purpose of the enemy are directed against one's own
personnel materiel and communications with the object of keeping one's own
design from coming into play.
Small plans miscarry because the wrong man happens to be hit at the critical
moment or the guns which were counted on are knocked out of action.
The problem of command in battle is ever to establish a safe margin which will
allow for such misadventure.
There you go.
So things are gonna go wrong,
but what you have to take ownership of is,
is figuring out how you're going to have a plan that's going to overcome those
problems
back to the book.
But this much is certain.
There is no system of safeguards known to man,
which can fully eliminate the consequences of accident and ms chance in battle.
Hence the only final protection is the resiliency and courage of the commander
and his subordinates.
So what does that mean?
When something goes wrong,
when something bad happens,
you adapt,
you adjust,
you alter your plans and you continue forward,
you own it.
It therefore follows that the far object of a training system is to prepare the
combat officer mentally so that he can cope with the unusual and the unexpected
as if it were the altogether normal and give him poise in a situation where all
else is in dis equilibrium.
Yup.
I'm saying over and over again.
And how do you do that?
How do you do that in the civilian sector,
right?
Prepare your people.
You role play with people.
You give them hard problems,
you make them figure things out.
You put them in tough situations so that they become accustomed to it,
but how to do it.
I would say that the beginning lies in a system of schooling,
which puts the emphasis on teaching soldiers how to think rather than what to
think.
Even though such a revolutionary idea would put the army somewhat ahead of our
civilian education.
That's a common thing that gets said in military training is teaching people how
to think,
not what to think,
and this is a good,
the test of fitness of command is the ability to think clearly in the face of
unexpected contingency or opportunity.
Improvisation is the essence of initiative in all combat,
just as initiative as the outward showing of the power of decision.
Think about this when you're raising your kids too.
There's a good little something to think about.
You want your kids to be able to think,
hmm,
think that's what,
that's why you got to have him doing some creative stuff.
Yeah,
right?
Sure.
Jiu Jitsu is creative,
but you got to,
I got to throw some other stuff at,
you mean
back to the book of the Darkest Hour?
For the novice and war comes with the recoil after the unit has been have badly
hit.
It is then that the young commander has greatest need of the friendship and
steadiness of his superior or have any other officer whose judgment he respects.
Criticism or tactical council are of no value at this time.
They can be given that later if necessary,
but in the wrong hour they add to the hurt.
Let him get out his crying towel.
Okay.
When he is told how it happened to,
the important thing is that he be given a pat on the back and insurance and
assurance that he did his full duty and some little reminder that while he may
feel that his losses are excessive,
such incidents are unavoidable feature of combat and do not keep one from coming
back in the next round in secret in Siegfried Saskatoon's memories of an
infantry men,
the young lieutenant tells of emerging from a bloody trench raid and meeting his
colonel.
Yeah,
this was Kent Colonel King Jack I'd never met before and it was the first time I
had ever shared any human equality with him.
He spoke kindly to me and his rough way and in doing so he made me very thankful
that I had done what I could.
So I mean this is a very important,
especially for folks that are in the military or in services where you can take
losses and that is when you're in charge,
it's the time he is not then to provide tactical council,
right?
That's not the time first you got to let the person get over the emotional hump,
help them through that and if you've got to go back and debrief from later,
that's what you do
think.
I think everybody needs to pay attention to that.
And I mean you could say the same thing for businesses.
You know if somebody makes a big mistake and they feel bad about it and it hurts
them or they get people fired and they cost a bunch of money or something like
you might not want to jump on their back immediately.
A man remains a man after he puts on a soldier suit.
Death and the company is like a death in the family.
Talk relieves tension.
Okay,
okay.
Talk relieves tension.
This is a tough one because guess what?
Some people when something bad happens,
you know what they want to do.
They want to be left alone.
Yeah.
AndW and yet it's talk that relieves tension to getting that out of them,
which I agree with.
But again,
you gotta be tactful.
There's a dichotomy.
You just can't go,
hey man,
are you really want to talk to you about what happened?
It's like,
hey,
maybe that person needs a little time.
Maybe that person needs a little space,
but you can't give them too much time cause they're gonna sit there and dwell on
it.
Mm.
So pay attention.
Okay.
The unit,
which fights a successful action but is without knowledge of its success,
may even ensure a great victory for some larger body and still emerge from the
battlefield with a feeling of inferiority.
Because it's a complex sentence.
But what he's saying is like,
what do you make sure when your people do something good,
you tell them.
Cause there's a lot of times where people don't,
people don't understand what they did and how big of an impact it had.
And that's bad.
Here's a good one in combat,
nothing succeeds like success.
The knowledge of victory is the beginning of a conviction of superiority.
Just as truly the savor of one small triumph,
we'll holy drive out the bitter taste of any number of demoralizing defeats.
Okay?
Nothing succeeds like success.
No,
he didn't.
This section tactical cohesion
important.
We're going to think about that.
You know there's a story in extreme ownership about the boat cruise and the boat
crew are doing well and sometimes people will say,
well,
you know,
what did the guy that do do different?
Well the new leader do w and I always say,
or what he got the team to do is get everyone in the boat rowing the boat in the
same direction at the same time.
But like if you can do that,
you're winning.
If you can do that as a leader,
if you can get everybody in the boat rowing the boat in the same direction at
the same time,
you're going to win.
And you'd be surprised how often I see companies,
I see businesses,
I see military units where people are not rowing the boat in the same direction
at the same time.
So that's what tactical cohesion is.
Tactical reason is how can we get people to be working together and here we go.
Getting the troops to that cohesiveness back to the book.
It may be done through one bold individual standing erect and saying to a few
others,
follow me.
We are going on.
Okay.
If a few rise and follow the entire line is apt to get in motion.
On the other hand,
if this same individual advances alone but says nothing,
it is unlikely that he will have any followers.
One word,
calm makes his action 10 fold as effective as if he plunges gallantly ahead in
silence.
The act of moving his initiative,
the act of coupling motion with speech is thinking initiative
in port.
Very important,
okay,
here's talking about getting a gun fight.
The first thing you do is you hit the ground is reestablished.
Contact with your men,
determine where they are and let them know where you are.
This.
This happens in business too.
Something bad happens and we all go into panic mode and start focusing on her
own little world.
As a leader,
you need to say,
okay guys,
here's what's going on.
Here's where I am.
Here's what we're going to do.
Leadership,
leadership,
leadership.
The majority of small unit leaders do not take any steps toward restoring
control from which alone can come.
Unity of action.
Some try to contact their men by voice or by relay a voice during an action.
While the men are prone,
the voice will rarely carry more than 25 feet.
This means that unless there is a relay of all hands under an and all hands,
understand what is being attempted.
The voice methods and effective in the seal teams.
When somebody yells out of command,
everybody says it and it's the best.
It's the coolest thing was not the coolest thing,
but it's pretty.
It's pretty cool when you hear that word getting passed and you hear the
criticalness of an important command coming out and everybody says it and it's
just that's what you have to do and were so well trained at that.
That's one of the few tactical things that you learned in basic underwater
demolition seal training gets you better pass the word pass the word man.
It's one of those things.
It's one of those things you learn to pass the word.
Okay,
this is,
this is a great point.
The company coming under fire literally begins its engagement by falling apart.
So when you start getting shot at,
guess what you do?
You get down,
you can't see anyone else and you don't know what's happening.
So your first thing that happens when you get engaged as you fall apart
thereafter,
so long as it continues to engage,
the overriding problem with the commander is the reunification of his elements.
This is a great way to think about,
so all your tactical leaders out there,
military,
police,
firefighters,
this is important.
Think about this after the thing,
after the engagement starts.
The overriding problem with the commander is the reuse.
We unification of his elements,
proper fire support and direction are [inaudible] are among the tools which he
uses and bringing about cohesion.
But the fundamental means is communication.
Getting his men to link up by talking to one another and sending along word of
what they are doing and what they have seen.
Now this is a very simple thing.
It is so simple,
okay
that it recalls the warning from Colonel G F R Henderson in war.
The simple things are the most difficult
pass the heart.
We say that we seek initiative in our men.
That is the American way of fighting.
We say that we want men who can think and act.
We are just steadfast.
However,
in in proclaiming that the supreme object and training is produced unity of
action.
These two aims are not mutually exclusive.
In fact,
they are complimentary halves of an enlightened battle discipline.
So did you catch that?
We want our people to act.
We want our people to act for themselves.
We want them to think and act and at the same time we want uniform,
unified,
a unity of command.
We want them to be working together so we want them to act alone and we want
them to work together.
There's obviously a dichotomy there.
Those are the complimentary halves of an enlightened battled Hussman.
Here we go.
This is beautiful,
but the various curious part of it is that law is that training largely ignores
the sole principle which makes these two basic ideas fully and finally
reconcilable.
We do not teach our men from the day they first put on the uniform.
That speech in combat is as vital as fire in combat.
Speech in combat is as vital as fire in combat.
We do not say to them that for a man to be able to think straight about his
tactical situation is not enough.
He must communicate his thoughts to others before they can begin to produce
unity of action
out of speech or from the written word,
which is its substitute comes all unification of strength on the battle field
and from the ladder comes decisive action.
This applies to two men serving together on an outpost.
It applies equally to the battalion or the regiment
right there,
right there.
If you can't communicate with the other people and people don't spread the word
and your team doesn't communicate well with each other,
you're not going to be able to join these two halfs,
which is acting and being decisive and being using initiative and cohesiveness
of your unit.
The question still remains,
what kind of initiative is beneficial and what kind is harmful and how may
troops would be,
might,
might be taught to distinguish between the two,
right?
So could a person on your,
in your platoon take so much initiative that it hurts?
Oh yes,
they can.
I seen it many times before,
many times before I've seen that.
So the question is how do we know how much that,
there's a dichotomy,
right?
We want people to have action,
but we don't,
don't want them to take too much action.
I'm glad I wrote the book that carbonated Jeff and here's,
here's his way of trying to define that.
Is the soldier acting on his own to advise others of his tactical situation or
conveying any other information which may be of general benefits in furthering
the tactical situation of the company or an enlisting the aid of others in
carrying out any action which will benefit the tactical situation of company.
So you,
you,
you need to take action and you need to take initiative as long as it's
benefiting the company.
Hmm.
As long as you're,
and you know what we talk about his commanders in tent,
like you can do whatever you want as long as it isn't supportive commander's
intent.
If it's non sportive commander's intent,
we got a problem.
Hmm.
In the army of the United States,
we act towards speech as if it were mortally as if we were mortally afraid of
it.
We tell our men to think yet we never tell them that if in combat they remained
dumb.
It is slow suicide,
slow suicide.
The period between wars was an age of rapid advancement in communications
technique.
Radio was born,
the telephone was vastly improved.
The teleprinters appeared in television,
waited just around the corner.
It all came so fast that we were struck dumb by her own magic.
How brilliant is that?
We were struck dumb by own magic.
How many people these days are,
are big,
not becoming good communicators because they're not interacting with people
enough cause instead of talking to them or send them a text instead of talking
to them there they're,
you have an email that'll,
how is that affecting us?
Yup.
Pretty much everybody.
You've got emojis coming out,
right?
I don't know.
That might be in the step in the right direction.
Right.
The additional emojis,
additional communication,
what it is,
it does add some clarity to your statements,
give you credits.
Maybe I need to get in the Emoji game.
Maybe not happening,
but you know that that's a great thing.
You talk about raising kids to make sure you talk to your kids.
I work with someone once that had a kid that had like a speech impediment and
this kid would just sit down and talk your ear off with speech impediment and,
and I talked to the parent and said,
hey,
you got one confident kid,
you know,
with speech impediment.
Yeah.
How did you get him to overcome,
you know,
this,
this speech impediment or the,
it's not so much the speech impediment cause he didn't overcome and still had
it,
but guess what was going to talk your ear off and was going to sit down and act
professional and get it conveys a message and the response was got them to talk
to people all the time.
Yeah.
And,
and made them talk to people.
And so that's what you do get,
have conversations with your kids.
How's that?
Yeah.
Have conversations with your people on your team.
How's that?
Yeah.
Is that one of the reasons why podcasts are popular?
Because you get to hear conversations between people because you're not hearing
them otherwise.
Yeah.
Maybe.
Here's what he's saying.
Uh,
this is just good advice for this as a fall.
You folks that are thinking about joining the military.
Here we go.
When you prepare to fight,
you must prepare to talk.
You must learn that speech will help you save your situation.
You must be alert at all times to let others know what is happening to you.
You must use your brain and your voice anytime that any word of yours will help
you or others.
You are a tactical unit and you must think of yourself that way.
Don't try to win a war or capture hill all by yourself.
You're action alone means nothing or at best,
very little.
It is when you talk to others and they join with you,
that your action becomes important.
Gotta communicate.
Yeah,
this is life tells a story about me telling him to use verbal commands and we've
got that story over and over again cause I've done it with through so many
different people like you need to,
you need to use your man voice right now.
Like you're not being loud enough.
And that was a classic example of that.
You know,
life trying to communicate over the radio and people aren't really than,
because it's put noise in your ears,
credit,
all these things happen and you,
you know,
you hit a little voice.
And in the seal teams,
like I said,
we're so trained to repeat those commands.
And I'm like,
life,
you've got to try using versus verbal commands,
Bro.
You got to try it.
And he kind of looked at me like,
man,
I'm giving the perfect brief over the radio right now.
My men will respond.
And so finally,
you know,
he is,
angry Lafe came out and he said [inaudible] he yelled and everyone repeated and
everything happened.
And it was one of those things.
And it's,
I mean,
this is what,
10 years ago,
12 years ago,
but it was definitely,
we all had radios on everybody.
Every single person had a nice radio,
the same radio that's being used today with a,
with a noise canceling headset.
Do you know what that is?
Yes sir.
Okay.
Yeah.
So what noise canceling.
So you'd think,
what could be better than that?
What could be better than this brand new modern technology with a noise
canceling headset.
You know it's better than that.
Your Voice.
That's saying a lot with the voice canceling headset and the voices better.
Yeah.
Well,
when you've got the noise canceling headset it,
it shuts off the sound.
So when you're shooting your gun,
there's no sound coming in.
Now you don't hear whatever's being told to you.
Check.
All right,
one final statement on that.
Men Governed by words,
speech galvanizes.
The desire to work together is the beginning of the urge to get something done.
So learn how to communicate,
read,
study English,
learn how to write.
It's gonna make you a better communicator.
All right,
now we go to why men fight.
When a retro grade movement becomes necessary in combat,
it is an invitation to disaster to move before the men are told why they are a
moving.
If the pressure is made,
the fact that that fact obvious than they still must be told how far to go and
the line or point to which they are withdrawing must be made clear and
unmistakable.
Otherwise they will keep moving and all control will be lost.
The spoken word is the of steadying forces in any time a crisis.
Think about that.
The spoken word is the greatest of steadying forces in any time of crisis and
excited.
Lieutenant shouting,
get the Hell Outta here and follow me to that tree.
If all me,
that tree line on the far side of the creek will succeed.
They'll perfectly calm captain trying to bring off the same movement,
but keeping his voice call for keeping his voice down with the result that the
men do not hear him will fail.
That's obvious.
Formal language under these circumstances is almost unknown in the army of the
United States.
In fact,
get the hell out of here has virtually established itself in our jargon as the
customary wardrobe.
Okay,
said Drent General Dragon Dragomir off a strong moral education is the best
safeguard to solidarity of troops under fire.
Even so the soldier will forget or discount much.
That training has taught him as the danger mounts and fear takes hold.
It is then the,
it is then that the voice of the leader must cut through fear to remind him of
what is required.
The reason IX,
the reasoned explanation of why this is true has never been more clearly stated.
Then by staff Sargent Pete f dying of the 17th Infantry Regiment after he'd won
the Silver Star for taking over the leading of a demoralized platoon during the
burden island fight,
and here's staff Sergeant Pete dying.
I knew that the men were afraid and careless.
At the same time,
though some were being killed,
the others would not take even average precautions and going after the enemy
installations as we pass through them.
I knew they were afraid because I was aware of my own fear that I asked myself
why it was that we felt fear in each other and I realized it was because all of
the leaders had quit talking.
I knew then that the only way to get confidence back into the platoon was to
talk it up as a man might do in a football game.
I continued my own attack on the enemy shelters and spider holes,
but there was a difference.
Okay,
that now begin.
Yeah,
that I'm now began yelling to others.
Watch me.
This is what you're supposed to do.
Get at it.
Keep working.
Keep your eyes open.
Soon.
The platoon became collected and began to operate methodically,
but I kept talking until the end because I had learned something.
New leaders must talk if they are to lead.
Action is not enough.
A silent example,
we'll never rally men.
Yeah,
gets on or get at it
in battle.
Back to the book in battle,
the Voice of the leader is always needed to call back the men from carelessness.
It is their chronic attitude in and out of danger.
Even in veteran troops,
it is not expected.
It is not the expected presence of the enemy,
which keeps them alert on a hostile field,
but the force with which they feel pressing them at any given moment when fire
comes against them,
they sense danger from every direction unless they are informed of the source of
the danger.
There is apt to occur.
A swift moral transition in which they become mentally pinned by the mere
incidents of fire.
I like that term,
mentally pinned.
You just don't know what's going on.
Someone's couple pin down.
This was interesting on seven occasions has been my part,
part of my duty to investigate the sources of panic along the battle line twice
in the Pacific and five times in Europe.
So there was times where people just panicked and left the line and he had to
investigate him
and he goes into that was how each of these incidents,
each of these seven and the incidents got it start one or two,
one or two or more men made a sudden run to the rear,
which others in the vicinity did not understand,
but it was the lack of information rather than the site of running men,
which was the crux of the danger for an every case.
The testimony of all witnesses clearly developed the fact that those who'd
started the run and thereby spread the fear which started the panic,
had a legitimate,
or at least reasonable excuse for the action.
It was not the sudden motion,
which of itself did not did the damage,
but the fact that the others present or not kept informed.
Got It.
Your people got to know what's going on.
For example,
a sergeant and the first battalion 502nd infantry was hit through the and artery
during the Keratin causeway fight on June 12th,
1944 it happened in a flash.
One second he was hit and the next he was running for a first aid station
without telling his own squad why he was getting out.
They took out after him and then the line broke.
Others who hadn't seen the sergeant make his dash saw someone else in flight.
They ran too.
Someone said,
the order is to withdraw.
Others picked up the word and cried it along the line,
withdraw,
withdraw.
It happened just as simply as that.
You could see how that happened all day long.
Right?
The term control is not in this instance to be considered as synonymous with the
voice of authority control as a man to man force on the battlefield.
No matter how lowly his rank,
any man who controls himself automatically contributes to the control of others.
That's legit.
Any man who controls himself automatically contributes to the control of others.
Fear is but so,
but courage is not less so
to the man who is in terror and verging on panic.
No influence can be more steadying then that he sees some other man near him who
is rich,
retaining self control and doing his duty.
It's weird how people are just so influenced by other people.
I mean you see it everywhere.
Personal honor is the one thing valued more than life itself by the majority of
men.
The lips of the dying a test.
How strongly this force influences individual conduct in battle.
A young company runner hit by a shell at Keratin collapsed into the arms of his
commander and with his life swiftly ebbing,
said,
captain,
this company always called me a screw up.
Tell me that I wasn't.
Tell me that I wasn't one.
This time the captain replied,
no son,
you sure warrant and the board died with a smile on his face.
But an army is a collection of individuals.
It is also a crowd under pressure and under pressure at tends to ever to revert
to crowd form the seeds of panic or always present in troops.
So long as they are in the midst of physical danger.
The form of which changes moment to moment and the majority of men,
the retention of self discipline under the conditions of the battlefield depends
on the maintaining of an appearance of discipline within the unit.
Okay,
so obvious as he with businesses,
man with businesses,
you'll get a business that like people are squared away.
That's how they roll every one ax squared away and you get some people that
aren't and that's the,
that's the image.
That's the culture of the company and no one's squared away.
Should the ladder begin to dissolve.
So should the discipline with an unit begin to dissolve only a small minority of
the most hardy individuals will retain self control.
The others cannot stand fast if the circumstances appear to justify flight when
other men flee,
the social pressure is lifted and the average soldier or respond as if he has
been given a free released from duty free knows that his personal failure is
mating conspicuous by the general dissolution
to it is a normal tendency in troops that they will drift rearward from the fire
line unless they are being given an active direction.
But it is just as normal that they will reverse themselves quickly and returned
to their duty of given a firm order by someone whom they know.
Yeah.
And have you ever been a situation where you just like put out word like,
like,
like just something stupid like I'm like you'll be in a store or something and
people,
people will be like not knowing,
hey,
they're just someone to say,
hey there's a register over here.
Or like you're at a waiting in a line at a,
at a,
at a public event of some kind,
you know,
hey,
wrap this thing around,
wrap the line around.
Yeah.
And everyone just does it.
Like at the,
I think this is kind of what you're talking about too.
Like at the airport,
Dale super late,
remember to get on the plane,
uh,
Washington DC and went to the wrong airport last minute,
last second,
by the way.
Anyway,
I'm standing in the TSA line.
I see super long,
by the way,
when I see super Supergirl,
I mean like,
like you ain't gonna make it flatten.
Yeah.
This long,
long,
like a long line.
Like there was a crowd.
So I'm standing in line,
I'm like,
she,
you know,
when you're in a hurry,
you're always looking for little shortcuts and all violate a few rules,
you know,
to get there quicker.
So I'm on the lookout.
Everyone else's screws just falling in line.
Literally.
Uh,
so I look and I see a weird sort of line start off kind of forming,
right.
Way shorter too,
like the kind like I can,
I can literally literally walk about 15 meters ahead to the end of this weird
little line for me.
Everyone sees it.
It's a little line,
but it's kind of like one of the things I go,
that's not what we're doing.
And I think the lines make it even more psychologically rigid,
you know,
where it's like we're in line and to get out of line.
That's the kind of a big deal.
Is this the social,
what does he call it here?
The social,
you get the release from social duty,
right?
Yeah.
Oh yeah,
yeah.
Everyone's standing in line and you're just doing what everyone else did.
There's like a social pressure to stay in line.
Yes,
exactly right.
So,
but boom,
I man,
I was going to miss that flight.
So
I ask,
oh how's this?
I asked the guy not like in that line,
cause it's way ahead.
I asked the guy in the next line who like maybe two,
three people ahead of me,
but in a different light.
I was like,
is that in another line?
And He,
you know,
he says,
he said,
yeah it is.
He goes,
I was like,
oh I just go,
you already know it.
But then he was like standing like he didn't do it.
Probably from that social pressure.
So of course I go and that everyone falls,
bro.
I looked behind everyone.
I fear like a commotion behind me,
but it's just so many people filling in.
That's true.
That's how freaking leading from the running.
And I made the flight by literally like what,
10 seconds probably are close.
Yeah.
Okay.
This is a,
again,
I kind of covered this,
but I'm gonna hate it.
One more time.
Individual stragglers had almost no combat value in inducted into a strange
organization.
The majority of them were unwilling to join any such solid unit,
which still facing the enemy.
The minority,
even after being given food and a little rest took their place in line.
But the moment the new unit came under enemy pressure,
the individual's quit their ground and ran rearward or soughts cover behind
somewhere behind the combat line.
So this is what I were talking about.
You get a new person and they don't know they're not going to do their job.
On the other hand,
this is important for businesses.
that was not true of gun crews,
squad groups or platoon which had been routed from their original ground and
separate from their parent unit but had managed in some way to hold together
during a fall.
Back upon being inducted into a strange company,
they tended to fight as vigorously as any element in the command which they had
newly joined and would frequently set an example of initiative and courageous
action beyond what had been asked of them.
Think about that.
Keep your,
keep your little elements together.
I used to be real big on that.
You've got your little fire teams and I would always try and keep a little fire
team integrity.
Keep that fire team integrity and these will be like in a soup spoon.
There's four.
There's four fire teams in a,
in a task unit.
You know there's eight fire teams.
Try and keep.
These guys still know each other but they're going to do a little bit better.
They just keep that fire team and tech.
They already know each other them.
They already know what's up
in our striving for a system of discipline,
which recognizes in theory they'll the theories offered ignored and practice
that the relationships within our army should be based upon intimate
understanding between officers and men rather than familiarity between them on
self respect rather than fear and above all on uniting comradeship,
self respect rather than fear.
This is,
they have destroyed the name and tradition of old and honored regiments with the
stroke of a pen for convenience sake.
They have uprooted the names and numbers which had identity with a certain soil
and move them willy nilly to another soil.
They have moved men around as if they were pegs and nothing counted,
but a specialist classification number.
They've become fillers of holes rather than architects of human spirit.
That's bold isn't it?
You like them.
So sometimes the army and the army does this more than anyone else,
I believe.
They'll just like take a unit that's been around for 122 years and fought and
all kinds of wars and just disband them.
They're done.
Just get rid of them and just,
and sometimes they bring them back,
thankfully,
but that's not a good idea.
There's a certain power in tradition,
right?
There's a certain power in tradition.
There's a,
when they formed up seal team five they took,
they took seal team or sorry,
underwater demolition team 11 and they disbanded it and basically reformed it.
A seal team five.
But if you look at the,
the symbol of seal team five,
there's a setting sun and on the setting sun is the number 11 can see it going
down.
Little little fact for you.
Pretty cool.
But they at least kept that tradition alive.
Right?
Lisa kept that tradition alive.
Yeah.
Um,
and yes,
this idea of fillers of holes rather than architects,
human spirit,
you got to think about what you're doing with a little units when you start
breaking them up and moving people around.
There's this,
there's relationships there that you're messing with.
You might not be doing a good thing just because this guy has a certain
qualification,
I'll put them over there.
There in lies a great weakness and we have suffered from it through every war
for it must ever remain.
That acquisition of a true knowledge of the nature of man in war will suffice it
very little if put to work only by the local commander on limited ground,
so everybody's got to understand that there's a human beings working here that
you're dealing with you,
that you have to be an architect of the human spirit that again leaves too much
to chance and puts too high a premium and on the virtues and talents of the
average leader,
what is needed primarily if we are to go forward,
the policy stemming from the top,
which are based not upon slide rule calculations but on knowledge of the human
heart.
Okay.
Next chapter,
the the aggressive will
I like this little section.
Morale is the thinking of an army.
It is the whole complex body of an army's thought.
The way it feels about the soil and about the people from which it's springs,
the way that it feels about their cause and their politics as compared with
other causes and other politics.
The way that it feels about its friends and allies as well as its enemies about
it's commanders and gold bricks about food and shelter,
duty and leisure.
Militarism and civilian ism.
Freedom and slavery.
Work and want weapons and comradeship.
Bunk fatigue and drill discipline and disorder.
Life and death.
God and the devil.
That's a big,
that's a big,
that's what he's saying,
like you've got human beings and the morale of the army is all of that stuff
combined together.
You have to account for it.
Hmm.
The definition cuts through one of the oldest myths in the military book.
That morale comes from disciplined.
Yeah.
The process is precisely the reverse.
True discipline is the product of morale.
Right.
I never really thought about that too much.
How's your morale?
If you have good morale,
you're going to have better discipline.
If your morale is weak,
what happens to your discipline?
Goes out the window.
Okay.
The soldier needs a sound and vigorous body if he has to contend in modern war,
but this itself should be the object rather than the perfecting of him in drills
not even remotely related to use of his weapons out of a mistaken and
obsolescent notion
that they somehow improve his discipline.
There was no such time for math for this method,
so doing stuff just to do it,
to like improve your discipline does not what we're talking about here beyond
the basic physical requirement,
the essential is that he be given the freedom to think with a clear mind which
freedom can be his.
Only when he becomes convinced that the army and particularly the army as
represented by his immediate superiors,
is doing everything possible for his welfare.
You've got to care about your people.
That's what,
that's what moocs it.
that's what general mooky Alma said,
you got to care about your people.
I hundred percent agree.
Soldiers can endure hardship.
Most of their training is directed toward conditioning them for unusual
privation and exertion.
But no power on earth can reconcile them to what common sense says is
unnecessary hardship,
which might've been avoided by greater intelligence in their superiors.
That is awesome.
If you're,
your people will do all kinds of stuff,
take all kinds of punishment for you.
But if they see that there's a way you could of avoiding punishment for them and
you didn't do it,
cause you are dumb,
they're going to rebel against you.
The more intelligent,
the more intelligent the soldier,
the more likely it is that he will see as a sign.
See that as a sign of indiscipline up above,
and we'll answer it the same way.
So if the upper chain of commands dropping the ball,
guess what's going to happen?
Lower Channel what?
We're dropping the ball too.
Nothing more radical is suggested here then that the leader who would make
certain of the fundamental soundness of his operation cannot do better than
concentrate his attention on his men.
That's a bold statement.
There's nothing better you can do.
Then concentrate your attention on your men.
If you want something to be successful,
concentrate on your people.
There is no other word for awhile road.
The di they dupe only themselves who believe that there is a brand of military
efficiency which consists in moving smartly,
expediting papers and achieving perfection in formations while at the same time
sliding or ignoring the human nature of those who may command
the art of leading and operations larger,
small as the art of dealing with humanity and working diligently on behalf of
men,
of being sympathetic with them but equally of insisting that they make a square
facing toward their own problems.
These are the real basis of commanders,
major calculations.
That's just a awesome,
that whole thing.
The Art of leading,
dealing with humanity,
working diligently on behalf of your men,
being sympathetic with them and at the same time dichotomy insisting that they
make a square facing toward their own problems.
Boom.
Men who've been in battle know from firsthand experience that when the chips are
down,
a man fights to help the man next to him,
him next to him.
Just as a company fights to keep pace with its flanks,
things have to be that simple and ideal does not become tangible at the moment
of firing a volley or charging a hill.
Having already suggested that the thinking,
bayonets can never be subordinated by the routine methods of a discipline,
which is based largely in mechanical procedures.
I will add that no leader will ever fail his troops,
nor will they fail him.
Who leads them in respect for the discipline life
between these two things and discipline in itself and a personal faith in the
military,
value of discipline lies all the difference between military maturity and
mediocrity.
Yeah,
I'll salute from a willing,
from an unwilling soldier is as meaningless as the moving of a leaf on a tree.
It is a sign only that the subject has been caught by a gust of wind,
but as salute from the man who takes pride in the gesture because he feels
privileged to wear the uniform.
Having found this service good is an act of the highest military virtue.
Yeah.
One further fact that needs to be stressed about the character of those officers
whose capacity could be measured in the efficiency of their companies.
While they were scrupulous in the care of their men,
they were not wet nurses.
Yeah.
They treated their subordinates as men.
They did not regard them as adolescents and they did not employ the classroom
manner in dealing with them individually or in the mass.
Yeah.
That was an important part of their hold upon the men.
The men prize,
a commander,
the more if he looks in acts,
the part of a soldier,
but the characteristic of a fine appearance will but betray him the sooner.
If he has no real kinship with the men.
So he does this dichotomy,
you've got to take care of him.
You're mad,
but you're not a wet nurse.
You don't treat them like little kids.
The characteristics which are required in the minor in the minor commander,
if he has to prove capable of preparing men for and leading them through the
shock of combat with high credit,
may therefore be briefly described as one diligence in the care of men.
So here's the characteristics.
Number one,
diligence in the care of men.
Number two,
administration of all organizational affairs such as punishments and promotions
according to a standard of resolute justice.
Number three,
military bearing.
Okay.
Number four,
a basic understanding of the simple fact that soldiers wish to think of
themselves as soldiers and that all military information is nourishing to their
spirits and their lives.
Number five,
courage,
creative intelligence,
and physical fitness.
Okay.
Number six,
innate respect for the dignity of the position and the work of other men.
I'm going to tell you those are some good rules.
Some good things to think about if you're in a leadership position,
here's a little commentary and it was written in 1947 might still be true today.
It is my belief that there is no more hurtful doctrine put before our people
today.
Then that the army should duplicate the arrangements which obtained within the
civil society.
Slavish Lee imitating the ladders,
comforts,
social customs and ideas of regulating justice and insisting on no higher
standards of personal responsibility for its people.
So Hey,
guess what?
The military is not the civilian world and we shouldn't be trying to make it
that way.
The military is the military.
That's a 1947 he saying that,
I'm going to have to say I agree.
In my opinion,
and I do not say this lightly,
the fault in our disciplinary level during World War Two was not primarily that
the discipline of the ranks needed to be more relaxed,
but that the discipline of a considerable percentage of our officers needed to
be tightened for this simple reason.
In so far as his ability to mold the character of troops is concerned,
the qualifying test of an officer is the judgment placed upon his soldierly
abilities by those who serve under him.
You can only mold your troops if they judge you worthy of molding them.
Think about that for a minute.
If they do not deem him fit to command,
he cannot train them to obey
Voss.
Where slackness is tolerated in officer ship,
it is a direct invitation to disobedience and as disobedience multiplies,
all discipline disappears.
I love,
I love this little section right here.
No officer can command unless he is certain of himself and confident that his
orders are likely to lead to success.
On the other hand,
command does not create its own magic.
Men who are filled with the spirit of disobedience will break the heart and ruin
the character of the finest officer,
whoever lived,
and you're going to deal with some rabble rousers out there.
We're going to deal some tough cookies.
Hmm.
The way in which the loss of moral incentive as reflected in the tactical
behavior of troops was thoughtfully expressed many years ago by the British
teacher,
Colonel G F R Henderson.
When troops once realize their inferiority,
they can go,
they can no longer be dependent on if attacking.
They refuse to advance.
If defending,
they abandon all hope of resistance.
It is not the losses they have suffered,
but those they expect to suffer that affect them.
Consequently,
on less discipline,
a national spirit spirit are of superior quality,
and unless the soldier is animated by something higher than the habit of
mechanical obedience,
panic shirking and wholesale surrender will be the ordinary features of the
campaign.
Okay.
Pretty harsh warning.
Nothing more unfortunate can happen to the commander than to come to be regarded
by his subordinates as unapproachable for such a reputation isolates him from
the main problems of command as well as its chief rewards.
So you got to be approachable as a leader.
They're saying there's nothing more unfortunate than being regarded as on
approachable.
It is.
Back to the book is never a waste of time for the commander to talk to his
people about their problems.
Yeah.
Here's a good people ask me.
I get all the junior leaders from the military,
from the civilian sector,
from everywhere,
and they asked me,
what am I supposed to do to the young officer who's conscious of his own reserve
and is anxious to do something about it?
I can suggest nothing better than to make a habit of full physical
participation.
That is instead of watching the squad or platoon work out a problem and either
directing or criticizing it's action,
let him pick up a weapon,
relieve one man in the group,
then let himself be the one commanded until the conclusion of the operation.
Is this course of contact beneath the dignity of the American officer?
Certainly not so good.
What was that as like getting the game get in the game?
In the United States service,
we are tending to forget because of the effective motorization that the higher
value of discipline of the road march in other days that it was,
that it wasn't that it hardened muscles,
but that short of combat,
it was the best method of separating the men from the boys.
What was common was get back to a little road march action.
Best method for separating the men from the boys is the road march.
This is true today,
despite all the new conditions imposed by high velocity,
warfare are hard.
Road March is the most satisfactory training test of the moral strength of the
individual man.
The great advantage of the gain in moral force through all forms of physical
training is that it is on an unconscious gain.
All Forms of physical training are going to give you an unconscious gain of
moral force.
Let that propel your workout tomorrow morning.
Willpower,
determination,
mental poise and mental control all march hand in hand with the general health
and wellbeing of the man,
fatigue will beat men down as quickly as any other condition for four.
Fatigue brings fear with it.
Yeah.
There was no quicker way to lose a battle than to lose it on the road for lack
of adequate preliminary hardening and troops.
Such a condition cannot be redeemed by the resolve of a commander who insists on
driving troops and extra mile beyond their general level of physical endurance.
I,
that's important to remember you.
If you've got people that aren't ready,
it doesn't matter how much you try and make them do something,
they're not physically capable of doing it.
That's the reality.
Okay.
Extremes of this sort make men rebellious and hateful of the command and thus
strike at the tactical efficiency from two directions at once.
Okay.
For when men resent a commander,
they will not fight as willingly for him and when their bodies are spent,
their nerves are gone.
In this state,
the soldiers,
every act is mechanical.
He's reduced to that automatism of mind which destroys physical response.
His courage,
his killed his intellect,
falls asleep.
Truly.
Then it is killing men with kindness not to insist upon physical standards
during training,
which will give them a maximum fitness for the extraordinary stresses of
campaigning in a war.
Yeah,
killing men truly killing men with kindness not to have them physically ready as
the body is hardened,
so must the mind be steadily informed so that the soldier will take a reasoning
view not only of the privations of the field but of that which is being
attempted.
Once we depart from the ideal of automatic response as the condition most likely
to produce unity of action in battle,
the only substitute for it lies in the possibility that more and more men in the
ranks can be trained to see and think through the haze of battle in unison with
their commanders.
You can see,
you can see,
I mean when you read about face,
there's Hackworth,
Hackworth did Madison how Hackworth rolled.
Hmm?
The fact,
the book,
why is the will of the military commander deemed more decisive of success than
the will of leadership in any other calling?
Clearly it is because the inertia,
frictions and confusions of the forces of the battlefield make all positive
action more difficult.
And yet the principles which when intelligent man to man cooperation apply
equally in all circumstances,
the same rules work on the battlefield as in an office
that's,
we got a little something called echelon front.
The wheel does not offer,
you operate in a vacuum.
It can not be imposed successfully if it runs counter to reason.
Things are not done wore primarily because a man wills it,
they are done because they are doable.
Okay.
This is a really important little section and you know,
I,
you know,
I talk about force of Wilson,
but you've got to make something happen for a will.
But there's a very important,
of course,
the caveat to that and we're about to get into this caveat.
So to say that again,
things not done in war.
Things are not done in war primarily because a man wills it.
They're done because they are doable.
The limits for the commander in battle or defined by the general circumstance
when he asks what he asks of his men must be consistent with the possibilities
of the situation.
That might seem like common sense,
right?
Hey,
I can't ask you to do anything that cannot be done.
Yeah.
Back to the book.
What can be successfully willed must first be clearly seen and understood.
If amid the confusion of battle,
the commander sees what is required by the situation.
If amid the miscarriage of arrangements and rest sailing doubts of other men,
he measures the means of doing it and if he then gives his order and holds his
men to their duty,
this is the ultimate triumph of the will on the battlefield to reflect on this
thought is to note that he exercises his will far less upon his men than upon
himself
should he,
on the other hand,
attempt to wheel that which is men know cannot be done or feel unanimously is
utterly beyond reason or should he base his order on assumptions which they
recognize as false is will becomes temporarily without power and cannot help the
situation.
This is one of those things where people think,
I'm just gonna,
I'm gonna tell him to do it and we'll see what they can get done.
Right?
Like,
no,
they're not going to,
they're going to see that they can't do it.
They're just going to say,
we're not going to be to try to make your goals realistic,
make them not,
not just realistical make them achievable.
There is scarcely any commander with any time in combat,
but has had his experience of having willing troops become suddenly unresponsive
because his facts were not straight.
So sometimes the troops aren't going to do what you want to do even though you
have this strong wheel they're not going to do.
Why is that?
Here we go.
It happened to Lieutenant Colonel Hwl Canard during the night advance of first
battalion 501st parachute infantry against the German hell Dutch village in
September,
1944 the village of Shin Jill,
which I have praised elsewhere in this book,
is one of the most brilliant battalion actions of the war.
The column had advanced only 500 yards beyond it's outpost line.
When it came under machine gun and anti tank fire canard heard some of the fire
clipping the branches of the tree above his head and judged.
It was all going high,
but the lead company had stopped and the men had jumped for the ditches.
He ran forward shouting to the men.
Keep going,
keep going.
That fire is high,
but it's personal.
Advanced had no effect,
not a man stirred.
So this is an incredibly like seasoned,
tough,
well trained group and he's telling him and he's personally leading them forward
st cold call.
We got to go.
Don't worry that fires high,
but it has no effect,
not a man stirred back to the book.
Within a moment he understood why he had failed from one of the ditches.
A rifleman answered him.
If you think the fire is high,
colonel,
come over here.
We've had eight men hitting the legs.
So you've got to think about what is actually possible.
The supreme trial of the commander in war lies in his ability to overcome the
weaknesses of human nature in the face of danger,
and these are the matters which he cannot know in full unless he has served with
men where danger lies.
Check
chapter 12 men under fire.
Okay.
To those that have known the firing line,
it would scarcely be necessary to point out that morale and combat is never a
steady current force,
but a rapidly oscillating wave who's variations are both in measurable and
unpredictable.
Yeah.
It is in this respect,
chiefly the rapidity and capriciousness of its variations that the morale,
that the morale problem in the zone of fire differs from that.
From that of a rear area soldiering,
a band of men go may go through a terrible engagement,
take its losses bravely and then become holy demoralized in the hour in which it
must bury its own dead.
A regimen,
Fred,
to utter objection by a protracted stay in the lines may find it's fighting
spirit again in a six hour,
a spite during which the men are deloused and giving a chance.
Given a change of underwear,
a battalion advancing boldly may be brought in check because it's commander did
the disservice of going too far forward and getting himself killed within sight
of the ranks.
A platoon may charge and capture an enemy.
Hell Elle Hil losing half its numbers and doing so then run down the hill again
because one of its own artillery shells landed to close and hit one man
so that the morale of the troops is constantly at at risk of going up or going
down
the near presence of death.
And the prospect of meeting it at the next moment.
Movement and mirror many curious and contrary ways.
Many men,
many men seem to change character under the guns.
The life of hardship and of danger gives new strength to the truly strong and
greater weakness to the truly week.
So combat is going to have an effect on people.
It's going to amplify their situation.
What normal man would deny that some of the fullest and Ferris days of his life
have been spent at the front or that the sky ever seems more blue or the air,
more bracing than when there is just a hint of danger in the air.
This is an important thing for leaders to understand.
The man who cannot bring himself to trust the judgment in good faith of other
men cannot command very long.
He will soon break under the unnecessary strain he puts on himself.
Sleeplessness,
nervous irritation and loss of self control will be his
will be his lot until he is at last found totally unfit.
The ideal relationship between a commander and his subordinate is nowhere better
illustrated than in a passage from the letter of instruction.
We're in.
Grant told ship Sherman to proceed to the destruction of Johnson's army.
Quote,
I do not propose to lay down for you a plan of campaign but simply to lay down
the work it is desirable to have done and leave you free to execute it in your
own way.
Some decentralized command right there.
This is another good one.
When a company has stopped by physical shock,
restoration of its movement becomes a problem for the battalion.
When a company is stopped by psychological shock,
the continuing of the advanced remains the problem of the company commander and
here's some advanced,
some examples of that diffusion of the company over to wide a sector or
retrograde movement by supporting weapons such as Armour,
the death of a well loved officer,
light losses from friendly supporting fire,
the appearance of some new and unexpected weapon in the enemy sector to a few of
the causes of psychological shock.
The local treatments are as many and as varied as are the diseases with respect
to the effect of friendly fire hitting among troops.
However it is to be observed that if circumstances leave any room for doubt as
to the source,
the men will jump to the,
that they are being victimized by their own guns.
Okay.
It is in instances where it is unmistakable that they have been hurt by their
own fire.
However,
the commander is ill advised to lie to them.
They will usually learn the truth later on and when they do,
it strikes a blow to his prestige.
The experience combat soldier knows that such occasional accidents are part of
battle and he accepts them as such,
but he cannot make any good judgment to the realization that his commander is
either a fool or a liar.
Yeah.
No gain ever comes from being slick with troops from acting deviously instead of
forthrightly from posing as having superior knowledge or from being secretive or
discounting the common sense of the majority.
See,
a lot of people do that.
They discount the common sense.
They think they're going to get away with that with with trying to bullshit the
troops and it doesn't work.
Okay.
The most common cause of psychological shock,
however,
is partial victory.
The adage that the weakest point follow success is a fundamental truth of minor
tactics and the danger is always greatest when success is to easily one.
Success is disarming.
Tension is the normal state of mind and body in combat.
When the tension suddenly relaxes through the winning of a first objective,
troops are apt to be pervaded by a sense of extreme wellbeing and there is apt
to ensue laxness in all its forms and with all its dangerous
he he hammers this home.
It might be well to speak of the importance of enthusiasm,
kindness,
courtesy and justice,
which are the safeguards of honor and the tokens of mutual spec respect between
man and man.
This last,
there must be if they are to go forward together,
prosper in one another's company and find strength in the bonds of mutual x
service and experience a common philosophy in the relationship between the
leader and the lead.
Loyalty is the big thing,
the greatest battle asset of all,
but no man ever wins the loyalty of troops by preaching loyalty.
No Man ever wins the loyalty of troops by preaching loyalty.
It is given him by them as he proves his possession of the other virtues.
The doctrine of a blind loyalty to leadership is a selfish,
a few tile military dogma except in so far as it is ennobled by a higher loyalty
in all ranks to truth and decency.
Okay?
War is to war is much too brutal a business to have room for brutal leading in
the end.
It's only effect can be to corrode the character men and when character has
lost,
all is lost.
The bully and the sadist serve only to further encumber and army.
Their subordinates must waste precious time clearing away the wreckage that they
make.
The good company has no place for the officer who would rather be right than
beloved for the time will quickly come when he walks alone and in battle.
No Man may succeed in solitude.
That's worth repeating.
The good company has no place for the off for officer who would rather be right
than beloved.
We talked about that when Jordan was on it.
Man,
you don't need to be right when you're dealing with your significant other.
No,
that's not important.
I have known a few brutes in battle whose talents were so limited that they
could know try no other means of command than the abusive men.
But I have yet to see one who did a good job of holding his command together.
When the going became rough and in the ranks,
fear of the enemy began to eclipse fear of the man up top.
Now here comes the dichotomy
because he's talking about all these kindness and courtesy and justice and then
he says ruggedness,
ruggedness,
toughness.
Ah,
these are quite different things.
So long as they are only the outer reflection of an inner determination and so
long as the inner fire is tempered by a heart having real compassion for men,
these are the best hands for the business.
They will win the hearts of other men and will stimulate their valor.
These others will try to be like them for it is a truth not to be denied.
That the rugged way is the natural way in battle dichotomy right there.
It tells this quick story.
There comes to mind.
One last picture from the same campaign.
The scene is stonewalled Fort Mont Berry.
The last obstacle bar barring entry into breast.
A battalion of the hundred 16th Infantry Regiment under Major Tom Dallas has had
the fort invested for three days,
but the defenders have withdrawn to within the inner walls and will not
surrender.
The infantry flyer can not get at them.
The ports had been flamed but without visible effect.
Finally,
Dallas acts for three tons of TNT to blow the walls.
He has given one ton assisted by the infantry.
The engineer's lay the charge in a gallery under the wall.
The work completed.
Dallas is ready to give the orders.
Then he remembers on the night before the battalion had attacked and Lieutenant
Derwood see settles had been killed in the moat.
There been no chance to recover the body.
It is still there and will be crushed by the falling masonry.
Okay,
so the demolition is held up and Dallas asks for a volunteer to go down to the
moat under fire and bring out the body.
Okay.
Our young lieutenant named Kelton response.
In a few minutes,
Kelton returns with his burden,
okay?
He says to Dallas,
we already now
Dallas replies,
ready then blow them all to hell.
The charge goes off.
The earth shakes.
The walls collapsed with a roar.
There is a stunned silence from within the fort.
Dallas stands there for a few seconds and the tears fall as he looks down at the
body of his dead officer.
Okay,
and that is loyalty.
close this out with a couple more things.
In every action,
larger small is decided by what happens up there on the line with where men take
the final chance of life or death.
Though I would not for a moment contend that modern war can be fought and won
without vigorous thought and action on the home front.
I deny absolutely that these things can vouch safe military victory any more now
than in the days when men fought with spears and crossbows,
any who look at war and think otherwise are siting through the wrong end of the
telescope.
Okay?
They have become deceived by the vastness of vastness of the national
preparation,
how differently they would see things if it became their duty to measure the
thin margins between victory and defeat on the field itself.
Yeah.
The great victories of the United States have pivoted on the acts of courage and
intelligence of a very few individuals.
Yeah.
The time always comes in battle when the decisions of statesmen and of general
generals can no longer affect the issue and when it is not within the power of
our national wealth to change the balance decisively.
Victory is never achieved prior to that point.
It can only be one after the battle has been delivered into the hands of men who
move in.
Imminent danger of death.
Courage is the real driving force in human affairs and that every worthwhile
action comes of some man daring what others fear to attempt.
Okay.
The man who is willing to fight for his country is finally is finally the full
custodian of it security.
Okay.
If there were no willing men,
no power in government could ever rally the masses of the unwilling.
Two men who have been long in battle and have thought about it deeply.
There comes at lastly awareness of this ultimate responsibility that one man
must go ahead
so that a nation may live.
And so the final and greatest reality that national strength lies only in the
hearts and spirits of men.
The army,
navy,
and air force are not the guardians of its national security.
The tremendous problem of the future is beyond their capacity to solve.
The search begins at the cradle where the mother makes the decision either to
tie her child
okay
to her apron strings or to rear him as a man.
It continues through years of schooling when children are taught either to place
personal interests,
opera,
most or to think in terms of their responsibility toward their society,
their country,
and all of mankind.
And there you go.
Strength lies in the hearts and spirits of men.
Okay?
And freedom lies in the courage and the discipline of daring to attempt what
augers fear.
And I think that that reflects not just the strength and freedom of nations
of countries,
but also of individuals.
We are ultimately responsible for ourselves.
For our own freedom,
for our own security,
it is on us.
And I think that is one of the,
one of the most valuable lessons to learn from Sla Marshall.
And,
you know,
unwillingly,
he also taught us a lesson
about being truthful and honest,
which he was not.
Yeah.
And had he listened to some of his own teachings,
he might not have made that mistake to tarnish his reputation.
It's not worth it.
He failed to listen to his own lesson.
And maybe that's the last thing we learned is that we don't just,
don't,
just don't talk the talk,
just don't preach,
but walk the walk and live the life live correctly and follow the rules that
you've set for yourself.
Okay.
And then you go and you live with the courage and the strength and the
discipline.
Okay.
So that you
can truly free your mind.
And I think that's all I've got for tonight.
Echo Charles.
Yes.
So speaking of,
uh,
strength and discipline and walking the walk and walking the walk and living the
life,
staying on the path,
maybe you've got some things that could help us uphold the personal standards
that we set for ourselves.
Yes,
I do.
I can,
I will.
SLA Marshall taught us a lesson he didn't want to teach us about that,
didn't he?
Yeah.
You know,
it's one of those things where I was kind of getting into it,
you know,
like on my cat.
Dang.
Yeah,
true.
That's true.
Yeah.
That's,
and then look,
came like how you mentioned before,
I'm like,
wait,
but this guy,
but then you know,
it's like,
it's the,
it's the dichotomy.
It's a dichotomy.
It's an unfortunate dichotomy.
Yeah.
See that's our man.
If this guy,
if this guy,
if we just knew about as normal at military record and you never said he didn't
have those stuff,
this would have so much more impact.
Yeah.
The fact that he lied,
just,
it just hurts it.
It's all there is to,
it jammed him up as,
as Echo Charles would say.
No,
but you know if you can,
how as it were not throw the baby out with the bath water.
Yeah.
There's some good stuff in there.
I'll tell you what is possible is for us to stay on the path and in that path on
that path is Jujitsu of course.
Right.
Better for,
she'd be,
she'd be in my opinion,
you are actually said today that that was one quarter of your life.
It is in your life.
One quarter of the things you do is Jujitsu.
Yup.
I'll have of the total things that I do y'all.
Yeah.
Important things because there's things that aren't on that list.
Like going to the grocery store.
Well going in the grocery store does facilitate one of the other things in my
life.
See what I'm saying?
Okay.
It's not one of the things.
It is not one of the things.
No.
That's like saying breathing,
you know.
Well broad breathing's not a party life.
Well yeah,
but it facilitates other things.
He see what I'm saying?
Okay,
so if that's the case,
does origin facilitate Jujitsu?
Yes sir.
It does.
Which is good.
Right?
You got to eat food and you've got to have origin.
Yes.
Check big time.
Okay,
so origin.
Okay.
Origin main.com.
This is where you can get your geek for Jujitsu.
If you haven't got one already,
go get one.
There is people out there who don't know any other gay except for origin game.
Actually someone contacted me.
It was like,
Hey,
I realize,
um,
you know,
origin is the gate again,
but before I buy one,
would you consider donating one to my cause?
I think they're like saving up for one.
You know,
cause sometimes that's how,
you know,
you save up for your gear,
whatever.
So I'm thinking on one hand the dichotomy.
Sure.
I'm never using these other keys again.
I wouldn't,
but on the other hand,
why would I want to bestow a substandard Gilkey onto someone's just starting by
the way.
Oh.
So it's like boom,
they got that.
But then again,
uh,
I'll,
I'll probably will assuming that the size,
you know,
all right,
well that's neither here nor there.
Nonetheless,
the point is if you want to get a good geek all made in America various types
option when we were in Maine.
And so after the camp was over,
Pete and I were at the factory.
We were just getting stuff done and planning and everything,
but he went into depth on weaving the fabric on the loom and everything,
Bro.
Crazy.
I've got full understanding though.
Yeah.
And it's awesome.
It's awesome to see.
It's interesting to see,
to watch Pete get into it.
Just let them go for,
Oh man,
this,
that's why these things are like so dope when you look at them.
And so that's why,
that's why the company is where it is without that passion for him,
for the team.
Like when you talk to anyone on the team at origin,
they're like wanting of this stuff to be awesome.
Yeah.
And so that's why it's that way.
Yeah,
it's cool.
If you ever get a chance to go to the factory up there,
it's worth checking out because it isn't just like,
oh,
a factor.
It's like a factory.
You can kind of hang out there.
It's kind of,
there's like a,
would you like a pro shop?
Yeah,
you can come and go in there and then like kind of open.
You can talk to the people.
It's good man.
That's good.
So yeah.
Oh yeah,
I would recommend that too.
In Farmington,
Maine by the way,
that's where it is anyway.
Also on there is joggers and rash guards and close.
Yup,
for sure.
For sure.
The rash guards,
compression,
compression gear was for gen supplements as well,
so we got for supplements,
joint warfare,
which is going to help your joints for a bunch of different reasons.
I get awesome compliments about that,
that I'm stoked on that.
Krill oil also going to help your joints and it's going to help your a whole
life and then you've got the discipline,
which I'm on a lot of discipline right now and I didn't even realize that we
were at a three hour podcast at this moment in time through and we recorded a
couple other podcasts today.
It's shorter podcast,
but podcasts nonetheless,
you over here getting the upper hand on in life.
He scoops of disciplines I'm doing,
I have to feel like I understand it.
So discipline,
pre life,
pre mission,
pre function.
Then you're going to get some into any format,
mental format,
physical format.
Uh,
my middle daughter took the actsh on Saturday and she came home.
She,
I,
I kind of fueled her up on some desert when before rolling in and she came back
fired up.
She was like,
yeah,
no,
I felt so bad.
And I was like,
yeah,
you're just,
you're discipline.
How scoops I gave her and you know,
she's not as big as me,
but I still gave it to show up for these guys.
I'm done for the three scoops.
That discipline by the way.
Yeah.
It's kind of a double effect that I could see how that can be,
especially if you're going into some situation,
like a test or even like a Jujitsu situation whenever you just Georgia for sure.
Yeah.
And then even afterwards,
when you remember how like solid you,
where you're like,
you kind of gets you fired up.
Yeah.
It's true.
It's like a double layered.
You got fired up because you got fired up.
You're like that though too.
Yes,
I do very much.
And uh oh yeah.
And the last thing is,
and it's not the lights,
the last,
but certainly not the least,
is is something called milk.
If you want to know what milk is,
it's real simple.
Milk is molten smoke straight on some additional protein.
I mean Molt pancakes straight out.
How did you do?
Okay,
so now you're going down this rabbit hole of just making milk.
Everything.
Okay,
here's the thing,
I'm sketch about the pancakes,
right?
So first of all,
I don't even like,
I straight up don't even like pancakes at all.
It's interesting for me to even think about making Moke pancakes.
Maybe it's something I could try because maybe I would like it.
Well,
if you don't like it,
here's the thing,
I'm not a monk pancake like expert at all.
Okay?
So I need to tell people how to make it.
Well,
here's the thing.
This is how I made them.
So I get tasked with wait,
were they good because they weren't good and let's not talk about it.
Oh,
they're real good.
So did you put Maple Syrup on them?
I did
read labels.
Sort of come from origin,
main negative.
Then again?
No,
I can't say that.
I don't think so.
Not that I know of,
but I didn't read the bottle or nothing good though.
Oh well,
okay.
On Saturdays or Sundays depending.
I get,
I make pancakes so there's only one day and it's for the kids and all this
stuff.
So she a thing.
Oh that's cool.
Hey,
you know what I'm gonna do for your kids this weekend.
I'm going to give you a bunch of carbohydrates and poison you.
Yeah,
well Dan and my defense,
Maple Syrup,
I got these or my wife got these Paleo,
it's Paleo pancake mix.
Was that Allman powder or something?
I don't
know.
Okay.
Paleo pancake mix check.
So boom,
I go in and you know,
pancake mix.
It's like a certain kind of mix to create like a pink,
the banking,
I don't know.
Anyway,
but then I'm like wait,
mold mixed dentition makes,
I could,
I could easily gem this whole thing up easily and I'm not making it just for me
as an experiment and my kids are to wake up but I give them more pancakes.
They are not correct.
I will hear about it or the whole thing is a flop.
Yeah,
I guess technically I just make regular pancakes later but it wasn't about that
right then and there I was trying to deliver big time so I can just start
throwing random ingredients in a recipe in the back of it.
So this is what I did.
He called for a cup and a third of pancake mix.
I just put like a little less than a cup and then you know a third little bit
over a third cup milk milk in there,
a little bit of water.
Some MCT oil I put in,
he calls for like you can put butter and I did boot butter,
grass fed butter by the way.
And there was an eggs.
Yeah.
So you put an egg boom,
mixed it all up.
Pancakes.
Oh,
I put chocolate chips in the form of a happy face.
Two weeks from there.
From time to time and yeah,
so did that.
Yeah.
More like a sad face at your house.
But boom.
I make them a little bit darker obviously because of the chocolate.
It was the chocolate peanut butter,
by the way.
It wasn't the minute.
Yeah.
Well yeah,
there was darker Brown.
Yeah.
Not the mint too,
by the way.
I think that you're risking jamming up pancakes.
Where the mint,
I think,
I don't know.
I didn't do it anyway.
Yeah.
Chemo good boom.
Maple Syrup,
boom.
Big Hit kids like the kids didn't know,
but they,
it had the peanut butter kind of flavor in there.
It's good.
Yeah.
So that's the mall could normally goes with milk or you can put it in water,
but that's like a ham sandwich.
Whereas if you put milk in there,
it's like a dental issue.
She know what it did too.
I put a two drops of vanilla in there.
Oh,
Andy.
Andy Burke came home from camp and we were just talking about camp and oh this
is cool.
You know,
he's like alcoholism and hospital meeting everyone and training and blah blah
blah.
And he's like,
you know what?
I really liked him and I was like,
oh this is my first time having more.
He's all handled.
This is surprisingly good bro.
We already knew that and I was like ah you,
you do you think people don't believe it is your instinct to think,
oh this is some kind of a supplement.
It's going to taste bad and I just have to deal with it but this won't make
maybe tastes okay and therefore you know these guys are talking up.
But the reality is the reality is it's good.
It's like a dessert.
Like a milkshake.
Yup.
That's the milk and has as good for you.
That's the crazy thing.
All right,
so cool then can get all that stuff@originmain.com.
Yes.
And also Jack was store,
it's called Jocko store and this is where you can get shirts,
hoodies,
rash,
other rash guards,
more,
more skewed towards the path,
the message,
the message.
Anyway,
there's some cool stuff on there if you want to represent discipline equals
freedom.
Cause discipline does equal freedom,
by the way.
That's one of those things like you can think about that for like 20 days and
it'll,
it'll make more and more sense over the three 20 days and then after two years,
and in my case,
three years makes even more sense.
You see it everywhere.
It just lingers revisiting.
Yeah.
And so it does end.
If you want to represent Jocko,
store.com that's where you can get the stuff cool stuff on there.
Some new stuff on there too,
by the way.
Really?
Yes.
Oh,
because you're always making stuff.
I don't even know about decentralized command style.
Well,
we've got a few novelty items you,
you know,
I'm assuming if I have it correctly,
it's just something that's pretty cool.
You know,
you gotta go in there and find out any off all the items.
Sure.
You think people are going to read you think people on the path without spending
their hard earned money on novelty items?
Is that what's going on?
Well,
there's always layers,
so it's not just novelty,
it's still,
you're still representing big time.
100% but one of the layers is just quite novel in my opinion.
Anyway.
Go there.
[inaudible] dot com 20 and stuff.
Yeah,
we'll do it.
That's why you gotta know Tacos,
check,
check Jocko.
store.com anyway,
hats on there as well.
A lot of cool stuff.
Anyway.
Chocolate store.com good way to support.
Good way to stay on the path.
It's just good all around.
Good.
Did you see,
uh,
what was it?
What's his name?
I'm not,
what's the name but the,
the,
you know the Nike Commercial,
right.
You know the Nike commercials been in the News,
right?
The controller and Theo Vaughn was like,
hey,
Nike borrower
deal.
Put that out.
You know what that is?
Maybe.
Maybe,
maybe not.
Obviously,
you know,
when you look at it,
it's like,
hey,
yeah,
he,
they did the same thing.
Put it that way out of where they got it from.
You're not okay.
Whatever.
Um,
but they did do the same thing,
but here's the,
here's what I really got from that whole thing,
especially his video,
how he did it.
He's like,
watch it.
Do what it did.
It really illustrated that that concept,
like how we stuck about all the time where when you,
when someone says good like that,
it really stands out.
Now you see that everywhere.
Even if you see the word good written on them on a sign or something,
you're like [inaudible] he didn't see what I'm saying.
So it sticks out in your mind just way more and it again,
whether that happened or not,
it's a weird thing to pick.
Yeah,
that's not,
that's a weird word to pick for the ad for the Nike Ad.
It's a little bit,
it's not a normal word to pick in my opinion.
It's a,
it's a good word to pick.
But anyways,
nonetheless good.
It's all good man.
You're the man.
I'm also a good way to support.
Did
you sell it to,
you kind of had my back though.
Didn't hear Yo Yo,
what's up?
Yeah.
And it,
and it makes sense too.
Yeah.
Just the whole deal.
I mean,
you know,
but yeah,
I think that when you hear that you,
I always hear,
oh John,
I just hear you saying it.
You know,
even if I see the word good in all caps in a regular sentence,
like in a different context,
I'll be low.
It'll remind me of it.
You see what I'm saying?
It just sticks out like that.
Anyway,
good way.
Support also is to subscribe on iTunes and stitcher.
If you're android,
Google play and you know,
wherever we,
where we listened to your pod,
your podcast,
just subscribe and don't forget that there is the warrior kid podcasts of which
we recorded a couple of more today.
So we've got some fresh ones out there.
I apologize to everyone for taking so long to get those out.
Uh,
life got the upper hand a little bit we back,
but that's why we had to get default aggressive this weekend and just crushing
or some of those.
Uh,
yeah,
so warrior could podcasts for your kids and for well really uncle Jake has
lessons for everybody also wore or your kid.
There's a warrior kid@irishoaksranch.com.
Aiden Aiden.
He's up there working hard and he's making,
he's got a business,
he's making soap,
Jocko soap,
good soap.
And you can get that there.
Help help yourself and you help yourself by stay staying clean.
That's the idea.
Stay clean.
The Youtube Channel,
if you want to see echoes,
legit video.
Did you post the,
um,
the uh,
the video that you just made for the revenge,
revenge,
revenge video,
you call it the frigging that's interesting.
Yeah,
that is there something strange there.
I have not posted that yet,
but yes.
Yes.
That's the youtube video youtube channel,
which is called Jocko podcast.
It's a youtube channel.
You can watch all the youtube videos on there and then you can leave crazy
comments from some anonymous thing about all kinds of crazy stuff,
which is fun.
Whatever you like.
Also,
Becky,
back to working out.
I got really okay on it.com on it.
The company on it.
Don't I got rings until you recently.
Here's the thing about rings again.
I said before where you know,
you're always preaching about the rings,
one of the two,
the,
what do you call it,
the staples.
It's actually in many ways considered to me to be the first thing you could get
if you,
if you had one thing you could get,
you could get rings and you could do really well with them.
Yeah.
And I'm,
I'm now reaping the benefits of the rings.
I've got them,
brings on,
it rings through like their backs repeat don't,
they're like what?
Yeah,
we got to get word rings.
I always tell everyone get wood rings.
Not Plastic rings.
Not Metal Rings.
Get Wood rings because they absorb the sweat.
Yeah.
Anything else is slippery.
That's horrible.
Yeah.
So and my kids are,
you know,
and they're adjustable.
You know what I mean?
I've only had on it rings.
So if they're cool to have adjustable by number and it's all this stuff.
So my kids two years old and five years old,
like they'll swing on them.
Like they get real creative with them anyway.
No,
not yet.
But I'll do the,
it's all these little functional things anyway.
There's a lot to be gained with the rings.
I'm a,
I'm a believer of the rings now and now.
I would agree with you 100% that that should be kind of the,
the first thing
I used to say,
you might as well get rings and you can do depths and you can do pushups and you
can do muscle ups and you can do like weird kind of squatting planking,
all kinds of stuff.
Iron Cross,
which I can't do by the way,
just in case anyone gets the idea that I can do and I across,
I'm here to tell you we cannot even come close.
Yeah,
that'd be pretty impressive.
It's impressive even if a little gang and do,
um,
yeah,
but here's the thing about rings and pullups specifically,
and this is why it's better than a pull up bar because pullups pull up bars,
koans.
Good.
Really good.
I've had a pull up bar for a long time.
Um,
but the rings is like,
yeah,
you can adjust for pull ups and then you can adjust them down so you can do kind
of like a rose situate,
you get there,
call adjustable.
You can do a stuff if you're Barista rings all day.
That's the overall,
it extended my workout literally by like 30% Dang.
30 yellow.
Yeah.
Cause there's other like I use them every single time.
Did different exercises majorly.
Anyway.
Anyway,
those are rings is and a lot of other cool stuff on [inaudible] dot com so yeah
man,
browse around,
see what up.
Get some psychological warfare album.
We're working on the next one.
I'm thinking that the next one is not going to come out.
It's going to come out right around Christmas is my guess.
So if you have anything somebody wants one about shopping compulsive,
how do I shop?
Stop Compulsive shopping.
I don't know if I can tackle that one.
You know why I have no compulsion to shop.
I don't really even like shopping.
Only like going to the store.
You don't know I'm gonna buy anything with the demons of shopping look like
I've,
I will say I've seen it because you see people that buy things that they can't
really afford.
So I guess maybe we could talk about it cause yeah,
no,
actually now that I think about it,
I can talk about that.
Yeah,
we can,
we can put together or something.
So psychological warfare,
if you've got a little moments of weakness you want to overcome,
I can talk to you personally about that through your iPhone.
Google play,
iTunes,
MP three for through your,
through your android.
I don't want to leave y'all out through your Samsung,
right?
Sure.
We're equal opportunity platform.
Device devices in every scenario I'd say.
And also you can get that Jocko white tea.
I'm on that train too far.
There's a lot of trains and the jungle situation.
It's supplementation situation.
It's been hot.
Yeah.
Well when it was hot up in Maine at the camp,
how good did that tea taste?
Legit cause they had it
crazy.
So yeah,
you can get that though.
The dry tea as well.
If you want to brew your own team now that winter is coming,
you need to get the hot tea so you can have a little little warmth
on your throat.
But that was never really your thing,
right?
No it wasn't.
But
it is now.
Yeah.
You make the adjustment.
You're like oh I've been missing out on.
Yeah.
Cause sometimes sometimes you just like,
it's a little chilly out Neil.
Comfort,
comfort and that's what you need all the time.
Jocko.
Comfort Charlotte.
Uh Okay.
So then I also got some books.
We've got the way of the warrior kid and Mark's mission.
This is for kids between the ages of four and 84 because everybody can get
something.
Yeah.
You got my five year old fired up about getting the job.
In the second book mark who's a young character in the book wants to get once
you get a new bike,
but he needs money in order to get money.
Guess what you need?
You need a job son.
You need a job or sell some stuff or sell some stuff.
That's what he has to do.
So yeah,
if you want to give your kids a good book that will teach them about discipline,
hard work,
okay.
Being kind.
Yeah.
But the dichotomy of being strong,
it's all in their cat,
man is so it's all in there.
You explain it while you uncle Jake,
whoever,
one of you guys.
It's good how you explain it in real simple terms.
And then you get this kid mark,
especially on the song I'm talking about the second corner right now where he's
like,
he kind of,
he overcame some stuff.
He's super strong right now,
but still a lot to learn.
So he understands it.
And then at first he's like questioning it.
Then he starts to understand any questions at Denny understands,
then he's fired up about doing it.
You know what I mean?
Cause he gets,
but it's really good.
And that's literally how like the kid,
whoever you're reading,
in my case,
I'm only reading to my daughter by the way,
she's fine.
And I watch her getting just as fired up is mark,
I'm a business owner.
She's like,
oh my God,
no,
she gets fired up.
Freeze.
Good man.
Really good.
It's interesting to see the little transition.
I've got so much good feedback.
Anyway,
so that's that a way of the warrior kid and Mark's mission.
Also the discipline equals freedom field manual,
which is solid,
which is solid.
It's a good daily reminder.
It's not,
uh,
you don't need to read that whole book everyday.
You can read one,
you can read three pages and you can get yourself,
you know,
you might've been veering off the path a little bit.
Get yourself right back on the path.
Yeah,
it's a good thing to read.
You could like read that it a page,
two pages,
three pages every day.
It will.
Would you,
I would say this,
it will absolutely help you if you read three pages a day.
Yeah.
That's a bold statement to,
I'm saying this book a book,
this isn't a,
this isn't the,
this isn't an exercise program.
This isn't a supplement that you take.
This isn't a,
this isn't a treatment that you get.
This is a book pages in a book.
If you read them,
it's going to help you.
That's,
that's what my statement is and I believe to be true.
Why?
Because I read it I the damn thing and
I still read.
I didn't tell.
And then we've got extreme ownership,
which is combat leadership wrote with my brother Leif Babin and how to take the
principles that we learned in combat and use them and in your business and life.
And the follow on book to that,
the dichotomy of leadership,
which I'd mentioned the word dichotomy quite a bit.
Dean lister says it's my favorite word.
I'm not so sure it's my favorite word.
I think my favorite word is discipline,
but um,
I don't know if I have a favorite word.
Anyways,
I do talk about the dichotomy a lot because the dichotomy is present in
everything that we do.
So if you want to get this book,
it comes out September 25th if you want to get the first dish,
you should order it bill yesterday or right now because,
well you don't want to miss out on the first edition.
I got my first copies on the old one right there.
There it is.
So dichotomy,
leadership,
order it now.
September 25th it will come to your door.
Speaking of leadership,
we've got a leadership consulting company called Echelon Front,
and we solve problems through leadership.
It's me,
it's life.
It's JP Denelle,
Dave Burke,
Flynn Cochran.
We also got Mike Cirelli on board.
We've got a couple new members joining the team right now.
If you want us to come to your company,
go to Echelon Front Dotcom.
That's what we do.
Also the muster in San Francisco,
California.
Getting close to sold out.
We probably have a little bit left right now.
Um,
maybe by the time this podcast comes out,
it might be sold out.
If you want to come to the foster leadership event,
San Francisco,
California,
October 17th and 18th,
all of the other ones have sold out.
This one is going to sell out too.
If you want to come.
Don't wait till the last minute.
Don't wait until I post on social media that the muster sold out and then call
up and say,
can we please get one more people?
Because we can't.
If we could,
we wouldn't say it was sold out.
So just just register now for the muster and for current uniform personnel,
military law enforcement,
border patrol,
firefighters,
paramedics,
first,
first responders.
We've got the roll call September 21st we just opened up a few more seats.
I think we opened up 50 more seats.
We've done that twice now but it's going to be,
I don't know if we'll be able to do it again cause registration is going to be
closing soon.
That is also registered@extremeownership.com and of course now we have f
Overwatch where we are connecting Spec ops,
veterans,
combat aviation,
veterans with companies that need solid proficient leaders that understand and
can bring the attitude of extreme ownership into your company.
If you want to on either side,
if your vet and you want to get in,
get a look for a job.
If you're someone that needs a leader in your company,
go to [inaudible] dot com to get in the game.
And if you want to keep cruising with Echo Charles and me
and you're not at one of those events or you're not one of those events yet,
well then you can find us on the Inter webs on Twitter,
on Instagram and on Facebook.
Key Bull,
hy
echo is at Echo Charles and I am at Jocko Willink.
And lastly to everyone that is serving and that has served in the u s military
thanks to you and your families for shielding us from evil and keeping us free.
And two police law enforcement,
correctional officers,
border patrol firefighters,
paramedics are there.
First responders here at home.
Thanks for being vigilant and protecting us and our families and to everyone
else out there.
Keep learning,
keep striving,
keep trying to figure out where you can get better and be better.
And it isn't easy
and it takes courage and it takes strength and it takes discipline day after day
after day to get up and face the unforgiving world and get after it.
So until next time,
this is echo and Jocko out.